---
layout: post
title:  "Day 9, Part 2: That Which Creates A Monster"
author: "chaosking121"
---

# Birthday

As quickly as the world had faded, it seemed to reappear before us. The memory Mal had decided to start with was one that seemed to be of a child’s birthday party. As I examined my surroundings and noticed that the house that Mal called home was the same one the party was at, I realized that it was her birthday that she decided to show me. 

“My 10th birthday,” Mal said solemnly, confirming my observation.

“I figured as much,” I replied, scanning the area. There were all the hallmarks of a child’s birthday around, from a stack of party hats to a large cake to a large table with snacks. But as my eyes fell on a younger Mal, who also bore those distinctive green eyes, I noticed that there was something missing.

“Where is everyone?” I asked, confused.

“No one showed up. No one ever showed up. Friends weren’t my thing. That’s not to say that I was a total longer, I got along fine with everyone at school but none of them seemed to be interested in being my friend.”

I looked back at her younger self, paying particular attention to the expression on her face. From the pained look she held in those green eyes of hers, to the frown on her face and even that little hint of a tear welling up in her eyes, it was clear that she was crushed.

“I’m not sure what to say.”

“It’s fine. I got used to it.”

I heard the door open behind us, and I turned to find that a couple walk through, with presents in hand. They too seemed to be deeply saddened by the lack of the turnout, but I was distracted by their appearance. They both had brown hair and eyes, not exactly the kind of people who could lead to someone like Mal, with striking green eyes and hair as black as night.

“They’re..”

“Yeah, they don’t look anything like me. They’re probably not my real parents, but they did care about me, and I’m grateful for that.”

Her supposed parents approached her younger self, clearly trying to salvage what was left of her birthday. The young Mal seemed disinterested, and quickly ran off, fighting back tears. And, as she did, I clearly made out that distinctive diary in her hand. 

“That’s enough,” Mal said as the world faded to black once more.

# Discovery

As a new memory came into view, I quickly recognized the scene that laid before us. It was the forest that we had found ourselves in just days earlier during our skirmishes with the beast. The crunching of leaves indicated that we weren’t alone. Another Mal, older than the one at the party, trudged onward through the forest. 

“I’m thirteen there. Let’s follow me.”

“Alright,” I said, as we both walked behind her. The hours I had spent walking through the forest after the beast attacked the lake had acclimated me very well to the terrain, so I had no problems keeping up with the very experienced younger Mal.

“You seem to be very good at this,” I remarked.

“Like I said, didn’t have a lot of friends. Didn’t have any really, unless you count the diary,” she paused to point to it, clearly lodged under the arm of her younger self, “so, I spent a lot of time exploring the forest here. I tried making maps at one point, but the forest never seemed to make any sense. Didn’t like adhering to the rules of maps.”

“Are we heading to the lake?”

“Yes, but she doesn’t know it yet.”

“This is when you find it?”

“Yes, probably one of the best memories of my time in this town.”

“It really is a special place.”

As the words left my mouth, we all stopped. Younger Mal had come to a large, dense part of foliage that I recognized as the boundary to the lake. She stepped forward, through it, and disappeared. But, neither Mal nor I made any attempt to follow her. It almost seemed wrong, to intrude on what she had called one of her best memories.

“What was it like?”

“Discovering the lake?”

“Yeah.”

“It was absolutely magical. I had never seen anything like it before. I must have spent a few hours there the first time, trying to walk all the way around it. I found it difficult to believe that no one had ever told me about it before.”

“No wonder you look back so fondly.”

An exhausted Mal broke through the branches and leaves once more, with a massive grin on her face. She broke out into a run in the direction that we had come from, presumably going home.

“Let’s wait here,” the current Mal told me, “I’ll speed things up.”

So, we waited, until her younger self came running back, with her father in tow. She ran up to the foliage and nearly dragged him behind her, eagerly wanting him to see the magical lake she had found. But, this time there was nothing on the other side of the leaves but more forest. We looked on as she tried again and again to find the lake before leaving to walk home dejectedly with an unamused and annoyed father.

And we continued to watch on eagerly as she continued to bring others to try and find the lake. She brought her mother, different groups of kids her own age and even once brought a dog with her. Each time she left unsuccessful and broken. Until finally, one day, she returned alone and it was only then that she was able to find the lake once more.

“I only figured it out then. The lake was for me alone, if there was someone else with me, I could never find it.”

“What about me?”

“I brought you there as one final test. Your presence here made no sense, and it still doesn’t. So, I figured if anyone would ever be able to find the lake with me, it would be you.”

“Seems like you were right.”

“I was, but it raised more questions than it answered.”

“So many questions.”

“But, anyway, we’re done here. After that, no one would take me seriously. I think they all thought I was a little bit crazy. I can’t really blame them, but it still hurt me a lot when it happened. I ended up spending most of my time at the lake, time seemed to pass differently there. I often spent days there, living off the lake water and whatever snacks or food I could bring with me. And, when I left, I’d find that only a few hours had passed. That worked fine for me, I preferred to be alone anyway.”

“You aren’t alone anymore.” I remarked instinctively. 

Her face turned to face me with a pained smile before she replied, “The show’s not over yet.”

And so, the world faded to black once again.

# Runaway

Next, we found ourselves in the living room of the house. It looked completely different from what I saw when I had gone exploring when Mal had left me alone. Without the layers of dust, it captured a certain homely charm, and I couldn’t help but thinking that it would be a nice place to live.

But, that impression was changed drastically when I turned to find a younger Mal and her mother having an intense shouting match. Even though we were in the same room, their voices seemed drowned out and distant.

“I was sixteen them. The angst was real back then,” the current Mal remarked from next to me, her voice clear despite the shouting happening right next to us.

“What are you arguing about? Why can’t I hear them?”

“I scratched off the words in my diary. Like I said, angst. But without the words, I guess it can’t let us hear what’s happening. For what it’s worth though, I was arguing with her about being stuck in this town. It really gets to you after a while, and at that age you really just want to see more of the world. But I had never even step foot outside this town, and that really upset me.”

“So how did that turn into an argument? Was your angst that strong?”

“Very funny, but no. It turned into an argument because she was vehemently against the idea of ever leaving this town. It didn’t make sense to me at the time, but I understand now. It was part of their programming.”

“Programming?” I asked, confused.

“No one in this town is real, the town itself isn’t even real. You’re about to witness the moment where I start to suspect as much. 

And, true to her word, her younger self stormed off all of a sudden. She ran out the front door, but Mal stopped me before I was about to follow after her. 

“Why aren’t we going after her?”

“I have a better way?”

Suddenly, the world around us seemed to move as if we were running. We soon caught up with her younger self and stood by as she kept on running. She kept going, all through the town and through the industrial district, straight past the quarry, which was then much smaller and into the forest. Unlike the forest inside the town, which contained the lake, this one bordered the circular town in all directions. She was trying to escape.

And so, she kept running, until she could run no more. So, she walked, and walked. We followed, all the while. It was sped up for us, of course, one of the perks of remembering rather than living. I glanced occasionally at the face of current Mal, and found her expression gradually shift to one of complete devastation as she looked on at her past, at her younger self’s desperate attempt to escape from that cursed town. And, she seemed to have made it, as the trees slowly began to thin out. I could see from our position as onlookers, that younger Mal’s face began to brim with excitement as she assumed she had escaped, that she had made it beyond the town that confined her. But one glance at the pain on current Mal’s face revealed all I needed to know.

The trees thinned completely to reveal none other than her house, she dropped to the ground, tears streaming from her cheeks as she tried to comprehend what had just happened. And, as she buried her face in her hands to muffle a piercing scream, I couldn’t help but share in that deep and vivid pain as the world slowly faded to black. 

This time, we stood there in that darkness before a new memory started.

“That’s when I realized how little sense it all made. From that point on I was a total loner. I suppose the angst played a role, but it was hard living in a world like that, where I seemed to be the only one for whom it made no sense.” 

“It would be hard on anyone,” I said, in her defense.

“It would be, but even if that was all it was, I could have accepted that. Maybe I could have just resigned myself to it and lived out my life, but there was more.”

The cold tone of her voice told me all I needed to know about that next memory, as it came into view.

# Death and Rebirth

We again found ourselves in the house, but this time we were in the living room I was used to. Surprisingly, it didn’t look that much different from its current state, except for being a bit tidier. I looked around to find Mal sitting on a couch, with her head buried in that diary of hers. I was about to step forward to approach her when I realized that she was wearing different clothes. I looked to my side to find the Mal I knew, and it dawned on me that they were about the same age.

“You’re both..” I managed to stammer out, confused.

“Yeah, biologically, we’re the same age. That’s me at 19.”

“What are you reading so intensely?” I asked as I noted how concentrated she appeared to be.

“This is the day my parents disappeared.”

“Disappeared?”

“About six months before this, I stared noticing people disappearing from the town. What’s worse, no one else seemed to remember them when they did. It was as if they had never existed.”

“So, you kept note of them in your diary?”

“Yes, any other record of them, even things they owned or gave me, disappeared when they did. Only my memory and any records of them in my diary seemed to survive once they were gone.”

“But even if they couldn’t remember them, wouldn’t people notice how empty the town was eventually?”

“Not exactly. Remember on the day you got here? All the people that seemed just real enough to make you question if they were fake.”

“Yes, it’s hard to forget something like that - the way they couldn’t even make eye contact.”

“Those things replaced the missing people.”

“But, what was happening to the people?”

“I couldn’t tell you at the time, I had no idea. I was so scared and confused. But, now I think I understand. The beast we fought and defeated, I think it was consuming them, their entire existence.”

“What for? Why would it do that?”

“Remember I told you this town and all its people were fake?”

“Yes.”

“That’s why. This town isn’t a real place, it was constructed seemingly just for me and populated by fake people.”

“And the beast?”

“Making an entire fake town with residents is a task that borders on impossible. The beast may have been something that managed to form from the imperfections in the town’s creation and grow slowly by consuming the residents and all the Vortex energy that would have gone into keeping the illusion going.”

Our conversation came to an end as the younger version of Mal started screaming expletives. In her tirade, she cursed the town and the powers that had put her there. She announced that she was tired and fed up of losing the people she cared about and that she would not wait for whatever cruel monster to get her too. Although she was speaking to no one in particular, her voice became ragged and she she screamed out in frustration and the tears streamed down her face. I looked on, feeling physical pain as I was forced to witness her breakdown. 

With her proclamation finished, she shut the diary and walked to the window I had spent so much time staring out. She flung it open and jumped right out it, seemingly not caring about the fall or the impact at the bottom.

Just like in the forest, the world around us shifted to follow her as she managed to stand even after such a drop. And what’s even more, she managed to walk towards the forest. With her back turned to me, I was able to get a better look at the state of her injuries. Her fall seemed to have been broken by a shrub but she did not escape unharmed, as I clearly saw blood seep through her clothes and trickle down her legs as she walked. In fact, the very act of walking seemed to cause her great pain, as she seemed to wince every time she put any sort of weight on her left leg.

But, I had to remind myself that what we were looking at was but a memory. Even though Mal called us both time travelers, I knew that nothing I could do could change the events that I saw unfolding before me. Instead, I simply looked on in awe as she managed to drag herself through the forest and into the clearing with the lake. This time, we followed her in. The serenity of the lake contrasted strongly with the hysterical younger Mal that stood before us. 

As I watched her collapse onto the shore of the lake and once again bury her face in her hands, I was finally able to look beside me to the current Mal’s face as she looked on. The dead look in her eyes finally drilled into me the hopelessness of the situation.

She must have noticed me looking, because she finally broke the long, palpable silence.

“It broke me, finally losing them. I had long suspected it was coming, but I was powerless to prevent it. And, if I’m being completely honest, I wanted it to take me first, as selfish as that was.”

“Weren’t you afraid?”

“Of my own fate? Not really. I knew deep down that it wouldn’t come for me. There were too many things special about me that didn’t make sense. So, it made sense that the mystery surrounding the disappearances would center around me as well.”

My head darted forward as I saw the past version of Mal move in my peripheral vision. She was standing now, and she started to wade into the lake. Soon, she had gotten beyond the point where she could swim, but she kept going. She kept wading forward, leaving a trail of red behind her, until she could neither move any further nor even keep herself afloat. I looked on in horror as her head sank beneath the water. I stepped forward, wishing I could dive in and pull her out, but Mal’s hand on my shoulder reminded me that I was looking at a memory.

“Did you just?”

“Yes, I did. I was tired of the madness in this town, I convinced myself that I needed to escape the only way that I knew how.”

I turned to face her, unable to even form the words I would need to reply to witnessing something like that.

“Keep looking, it’s not over,” she said to me as I did.

I turned back to see a light shining from beneath the lake. It slowly increased in brightness and seemed to come closer to the surface. It sped up as it rose higher, and it eventually burst out of the water where I was able to see that it was her diary. There was a glowing marking on it, the source of the light. Despite it blinding me, I instinctively knew that it was a powerful sigil, and from that marking came a dagger. I recognized it instantly as her dagger, the same one that I had held when I cut off the beast’s arm.

The world around us started to shake as the light grew even more blinding, eventually engulfing everything around us before disappearing completely and leaving us in the darkness once more.

# The End of All Things

“What was that?” I asked, still in awe.

“A sigil, hidden on my diary’s cover. It was set to trigger when I died, and once I did, it released the dagger and then transported me out of the town. I’m not sure if it stopped me from dying or if it brought me back to life once I did, but I woke up on a sidewalk of a large city, alive and confused with only the diary, the dagger and the clothes I was wearing.”

“I can sympathize with that. But what happened then?”

“I quickly realized that I was invisible. I couldn’t be seen or heard. With no way to easily interact with people, I simply roamed the city for a few months until I met him.”

“Him?”

“A man who could see me. He instantly recognized that something was wrong about me. He took me to his people, who he called The Order.”

“The group of time travelers?”

“That’s the one. It was still in the early days, but they held a lot of power in secret. I told them my story, leaving out a few details like my mysterious diary and my inability to leave the town. They decided that they would take me in and train me, as I clearly had potential to be a great time traveler.”

“They were certainly right about that.”

“It was so much to take in at the time. The entire concept of a time traveler seemed so foreign to me. But, they gave me another chance, and they promised me that if I joined them, I would one day encounter whatever entity had caused me all that grief. I guess they were right about that too.”

As she spoke, scenes quickly flipped by around us. A time-lapse of her studying and training. I watched on as she read mountains of books, practiced drawing sigils and sparred with others. As the scenes ticked by, I saw people grow old and die as the years passed. It all moved so fast, she had started out in candle-lit libraries, but by the time the scenes faded again, she was using technology I couldn’t even find the words to describe. 

“You trained for a long time,” I remarked as I watch her improve and improve.

“I tried to reach the limits of my ability, but I never did. Instead, I kept training and learning as the world spun. Once I realized that I didn’t age anymore, I decided that I might as well take my time with all of it. There was no need to rush when you’re immortal after all.”

“And The Order just allowed that?”

“They saw my potentially early on. Many of the original members who I met on that night were still around by the time I officially finished training. They were ancient time travelers, and the Vortex energy within them slowed their aging considerably. But I was a on a totally different level. Mine had stopped entirely.”

“Were they afraid of you?”

“Not initially, but they quickly realized that they could control me. As The Order grew and became well-known, they developed enemies. And as human technology improved beyond that of a Type-2 Civilization, the battles got even more dangerous. Eventually, the leaders of The Order shifted my training from general to combat and warfare. They guided me into becoming a fighter, and that’s just what they got.”

The scenes before us started to change, and I stood witness to hell itself. I saw battlefields. I saw mountains of bodies and rivers of blood. I saw entire armies slain by the razor edge of her blade. I looked on as she conquered massive fleets of star ships larger than I could comprehend and I saw her  topple monsters so gruesome and powerful that I could not even begin to find the words to defeat them.

I saw her, bathed in blood again and again. And, each time I saw the light in her eyes fade ever so slightly. The scenes slowly came to a stop. In this one, Mal stood alone atop a hill, drenched in blood. Her eyes had lost the light that I had grown to think of so fondly. Even their color seemed to change, as the green of her eyes was replaced by a cold blackness. It seemed to fit her well, as she seemed fittingly apathetic to the bloodshed and slaughter all around her. 

Suddenly, the scene began to zoom out quickly, stopping only when the entire planet was in view. It was only then that I began to understand the scope of her fury. The planet was ravaged, covered in molten rock and seemingly on the brink of collapse. From where we were, I could even make out a part of the surface that looked like a large chunk had been violently ripped off. But, she clearly wasn’t finished yet as I felt a surge of Vortex energy well up even at that great distance. And, in an instant, the planet started to contract, collapsing in on itself under the sheer scope of her power.

“I was feared, more than any other. I was the invincible warrior who would topple empires without help and who could crush planets with a single sigil. I wasn’t like the others. I wasn’t confined to the sigils that managed to glean from the book they called The Truth. I created my own, and I alone had that power. It made me powerful, there seemed to be no limit to what I could do. But, there was a different limit. After all the destruction I had caused, my humanity took a massive toll, and I lost sight of it. After the thousands and thousands of years I had lived, I forgot what it meant to be alive. The ones around me seemed to be nothing more than fleeting insects.”

The scene changed yet again. It showcased a powerful man at the helm of a fleet of ships that dwarfed an entire solar system.

“I became a threat. I became a danger to the universe. I was uncontrollable they said, and The Order was blamed. A civil war started in response to my strength, meanwhile I was too busy terrorizing random planets to care. A powerful and power-thirsty man declared himself Emperor with the help of detractors from The Order. In the end, he managed to assume control of most of the Galaxy under the premise of putting a stop to me, long after I had stopped caring about something as fleeting as civilization.”

Another scene change, to Mal once more, as she dived headfirst into a star. We watched on as she fell, eventually impacting the surface.

“I tried to change, I really did. I stopped the killing and went into hiding. Jumping from planet to planet as the Emperor’s men tried to track me down. I eventually found myself on a planet orbiting a star that was nearing the end of its days. Around it orbited an inhabited planet, but they were powerless to stop it. I don’t know what it was about that day, but I felt a tiny bit of compassion for them, the first time I had felt it in thousands of years. I had even forgotten the word.”

The star began to shrink, with tiny bursts of solar material blasting off the surface. The color of its light changed too. As it shrunk, the red reverted back to a calming yellow. 

“I dove into the heart of the star that threatened to kill them all. At first, I simply devoured some of its material, but it wouldn’t be enough. I made my way to the core, protecting myself from the heat and pressure with thousands of sigils. It took a few hundred thousand more to reverse the fusion in the core, reverting carbon and heavier elements back to hydrogen. I split so many atoms that the energy released threatened to rip the star apart and kill the very planet I was hoping to save.”

The star started to swell again, very slowly.

“I thought I had it under control, I really did. But, the chain reaction was too much for me to sustain. The energy I released was too much for me to dissipate with sigils. It would have taken millions of them.”

The star suddenly exploded, ripping itself apart and spewing its contents into the planets around it.

“I had been missing for a long time by then, but the Emperor could not miss such a large explosion. They found me, lying adrift in the waste of a supernova caused by my own hands and drained of most of my power. I was unable to resist them, let alone explain myself. They took my act as a sign that I was still the violent monster that the Emperor had declared to hunt as part of his claim for supremacy. And, in their eyes, he had finally lived up to that promise.”

The scene changed again, to Mal, bound in chains as she was shot at, blown up and torn to pieces.

“They tried, but they couldn’t kill me. Even with most of my power gone, my body was resilient, the product of tens of thousands of years abusing the power of the Vortex. But the atrocities I had committed could not be forgiven, even if I was goaded and used by their leaders into becoming the same weapon they now hated.”

The scene now reflected something massive, and it was only as I looked to the very edges that I understood. We were looking at a super-massive black hole, visible only by its fearsome accretion disks and the warping of space that it was able to produce.

“Only a thing like this could kill me, or so they thought. I tried to warn them. When you travel through time or use sigils, a piece of you is rejected by space and is stuck in time alone. Inside a black hole, time ceases to be. So, it stood to reason that if you tried to throw someone who had time traveled as much as I had into a black hole that large, that something was bound to go wrong. But, they didn’t listen. That’s the thing, humans never do. Instead, the Emperor decided to spin it as a celebration of his daughter’s birth. He called it the mark of the war’s end and his absolute rule. Oh, how naive he was.”

I watched as something approached the black hole in the distance. It sped up due to the massive gravity, but the size of the black hole meant the tidal forced weren’t enough to rip it apart. Soon, it seemed to pass the event horizon. But, as it did, ripples seemed to form on the horizon and a deep sense of dread permeated every cell in my body.

It was over in an instant. The black hole ripped itself apart, trying desperately to consume Mal but failing due to the world’s rejection of her. It resulted in a magnificent and terrifying explosion. The ripples in space raced outward, destroying everything in its path. I looked on as nearby stars vanished as the rending of space destroyed them. There was no doubt in my mind that the fiery death that the explosion had sent out in all directions would never cease. It would continue to  ravage everything in its path, until all had been consumed. 

“This is, my Forever Sin. The world all around us will die, burning and suffering until there is nothing left!. This is the price I pay for messing with the power of a deity. This is what I get for simply existing. I will have to bear this guilt until I die, and if things weren’t cruel enough, that’s easier said than done. Even after the explosion, I remained there at the epicenter. It killed me sure, I mean, even I couldn’t survive that. But, there’s so much Vortex energy inside me that even though my heart has stopped and my blood runs cold, I can’t die. I am forced to continue living, for hundreds of thousands of years, as I saw the cold dead remains of our galaxy and the explosion I caused spread throughout the cosmos, taking everything with it. I had to bear that burden and shoulder that weight and it killed me inside, again and again, knowing what I had done. What I had caused.”

The scene had long since faded, and we had found ourselves once again on the floor of the Hall of Memory. Mal had fell to ground in tears as she screamed, just as she had in her memories. I tried to process what she had said, the scope of what she believed to have caused. It all made sense to me in a weird way though. After all, I had noticed several times since I had met her that she was very cold, and that her breath was incredibly still. In fact, I was upset with myself for not connecting the dots sooner.

But, despite all of that. Despite seeing the death and destruction that she sowed across the universe, and the end of the world that came from her own existence, I still wanted to embrace her. And so, I did, even though I felt the logical side of me scream out in aversion as I did. I placed my arms around her, holding her tight even as her body chilled mine.

“Why? Why?” she repeated, “why, even after all I’ve done, don’t you run away? Why don’t you curse me, and try to kill me, even though you know that I will one day bring about the end of everything you love and care about? Why?!”

“It’s because nothing you showed me today can change what I’ve seen over the last few days. It doesn’t change the person that you are right now. Listen, you are perhaps the most powerful being to have ever existed. There’s no doubting that. You were used by the ones you trusted. You were led down a path to war and treated like nothing more than an object. Those people dug their own grave.”

“But if I hadn’t existed, the world would not have ended.”

“You should know better than anyone that the past can’t be changed.”

“I can try! You just said it yourself, I’m the most powerful.”

“Listen, Mal. I have something to tell you.”

“What could you say that would make a difference?”

“Mal, I forgive you.”

“What?”

“I’m the first human you’ve met since the explosion, so I think that gives me some authority to say that I forgive you. But that’s not all. I’m like you. I mysteriously found myself in this town, with no idea who brought me here. You said it yourself when I drank that entire can of coke that there’s an enormous amount of Vortex energy inside of me. And I can create sigils within myself as well. Together, we’ll try to recover my memories, but even if we don’t I will forever use my power to try to undo the damage you did. You showed me a civilization with technology I can’t even begin to imagine. So, that must all be in the future for me. If it is, I’ll hunt you down forever, in the shadows. I swear that I will minimize the damage that you do and I will prevent the explosion. It’s your past, but it’s my future, and I know I can do it.”

“A…”

“No words. Neither of us had a choice to come to this town or get wrapped up in this mess. And you weren’t even given a choice about what to do once you escaped. But, I will, and I will give my all at preventing the end of all things.”

“Thank you…” she managed to stammer before passing out. I hadn’t even begun to consider how much energy the Hall took to manifest, or how much reliving her past had affected her. I grabbed the diary off the table and tried to lift her up as I climbed the stairs out of the Hall and into the hallway, where I collapsed. Unsure of what to do with her and feeling quite tired myself, I simply decided to stay in the hall and have her rest her head on my lap as she slept. 

As I sat there, trying to absorb all that had happened, I felt, for the first time, a true sense of purpose and direction. I had meant my words to her, and I truly believed it in my power to change the outcome. After all, I owed it to her, who had protected me again and again and taught me about the power that now lay within me. And so, with a light brush of her cheeks to wipe her drying tears, I let the dark comfort of sleep take me as well, into its embrace.

