---
layout: post
title:  "Day 10, Part 2: That Day, Again"
author: "chaosking121"
---

Mal made quick work of arranging pebbled in the shape of the sigil we needed. She completed her preparations by placing the Core of the beast in the center, and having us both stand in small circles on either side of it. 

“So, this is pretty advanced stuff. But, you’ve impressed me so far so I’m sure you can handle this. First of all, hold onto my hands.”

I nodded, as I grasped her hands.

“Hold on tightly. I can’t nail a landing point until we get to the right moment in time, so once we do, I’ll basically be your pilot. If you let go, I won’t be able to save you.”

“I understand.”

“Alright, now calm your mind and take a deep breath.”

I listened to her instructions and rid my mind of as many thoughts as I could.

“Find something dear to you, and focus on it.”

Naturally, I pictured her eyes, with their piercing green hue. They had become a symbol of what bound me to that world, and my hands tightened their grip reflexively as I concentrated.

“We’ll both need to work together to power this thing. I’ll start the flow, and I want you to just cycle it right back to me. If we keep that up, we’ll form a loop that should allow us to power this thing as one.”

I waited for the first jolt of power, which I felt as a tingle in my left hand. Although I was inexperienced, I was still able to control it enough to return it to her through my right. And so, the loop was sealed. With each cycle, I felt the power we mustered grow stronger and faster until we were engulfed in a blinding flash as the world was ripped from around us.

This time however, the flash persisted much longer than usual. I was able to just make out the arch of her brows as she desperately tried to find a safe place for us to reappear. Suddenly I heard her let out a sharp breath as we found ourselves reconnecting with the floor. 

It wasn’t as smooth a landing as usual, and both Mal and I found ourselves tumbling down and taking a few moments to catch our balance. Once we did, I found that we had landed in some sort of storage room, filled with writing I couldn’t understand and things I didn’t recognize.

“We’re on the Emperor’s ship. It was the nearest thing to the black hole.”

“Where’s the current you?”

“I didn’t want to tempt myself into interfering, so I landed us right at the moment I was shot out of the ship.”

I tried to imagine that, at that very moment, Mal was hurtling towards a super-massive black hole and the death of the world itself.

“How long do we have?” I asked, trying to change the topic that I’m sure we were both thinking about.

“The ship is pretty far, but I’ll accelerate exponentially as I approach, so I’d say we have about an hour. But, let this be your first practical time travel lesson - time rarely passes how you think it will.”

I nodded in affirmation. 

“So then, what do we do now?”

“Let’s check outside this room for starters.”

So, we made our way to the door, which Mal demonstrated posed no obstruction to us as we simply walked through.

“We’re projections, remember?” she said in answer to my surprised expression.

“Right,” I replied as I walked right through the door.

After that, I simply followed her. I couldn’t understand a single one of the signs, so I had little choice in the matter. We continued walking for quite some while, and it was eventually apparent that we had no clear goal in mind. I was in the process of forming the words to ask her about what our plan should be, when I suddenly felt a hand rest on shoulder and the sensation of being ripped from the world returned to me once more.