---
layout: post
title:  "Day 5, Part 2: That Almighty Push"
author: "chaosking121"
---

As my body hit the floor, I didn’t even have to ask why she had warned me, as that terrifying sensation returned to me. It was the same as that day in the shop. I struggled to look up, to face that terrifying beast that threatened to destroy us both. This time however, I was stronger than I had been then. Between my training that morning and my long soak in the lake’s water the day before, this time, I was able to move my body enough to stand. And although its presence still seemed to be veiled behind a mass of static, I was able now to make out the shape of the beast - that of a wolf. Between me and the beast however, stood Mal, dagger in hand and fighting stance assumed. 

“A,” she said.

I understood the queue, as I clutched both stones and forced them awake. In an instance, I was able to become unseen and unheard. I quickly made my way back to the camp, out of Mal’s way. Knowing that she was safe to go all out, she really stopped holding back. 

She charged at the beast, which now that I could get a proper look at it, I realized was as tall as either me or her. Mal, undeterred by the creature’s daunting size, struck at it with her dagger, again and again. She moved with terrifying speed, and even as removed from the fray as I was, I could barely keep up with her movements. The beast fared no better against her. Her hands seemed to dance around as she gracefully dodged the beasts swipes.

She even adopted other attacks into her barrage, with kicks and punches keeping the beast back and struggling to keep up. It was not to last forever though, as she left an opening after a particularly devastating strike against the beast. It was able to take advantage of her momentary lapse and land its first blow against her. Thankfully, she was able to react quickly enough to avoid being struck in the head. Instead, the blow landed on her left shoulder. As the blood dripped slowly from her fresh wound, I cried out. Had it not been for the silencing stone I held, I would have surely been found.

Realizing that her wounds did little to hurt the beast, Mal had to act quickly to avoid being locked in a battle of attrition that she seemed doomed to lose. Taking advantage of her phenomenal speed, she was able to put some distance between her and the beast. Stunned by her movements, it hesitated for a second before charging at her. Instead of running, she raised her right arm and faced the beast head on. 

Suddenly, I felt a surge of Vortex energy in the area even at my fair distance from the fight. It all seemed to emanate from Mal, who had clearly just used a sigil of some sort. As a result, the beast was not only knocked back but sent flying over the lake. I watched on in awe as I heard her scream out, “Run!”

Not waiting around to see what I would be running from, I took off in a sprint. I had barely made it to the edge of the forest when I glanced back to see that the beast had landed in the water, which reacted violently to its presence. There was a massive explosion, with water shooting up several dozen meters into the sky. I kept running forward as I felt a strong blast of air rip past me, sending me tumbling into the ground.

I renewed my resolve to keep going as I crawled forward, battered by the ferocious winds and blinded by the water, which fell down to the ground in a heavy downpour. But, that turned out to work in my favor as the water renewed my vigor, giving me the last bit of strength I needed to burst through the boundary created by the dense trees and into the forest once more.

Once there, I looked back, not surprised to see only more forest. I keeled over, panting with my heart racing in terror. I caught my breath quickly and decided to keep on moving. I was unsure of how to proceed, but I figured it would definitely be in my best interest to get as far away from that beast as I could. After all, there was no way I could help Mal. So, despite my increasing worry about her safety, I trudged onward, not caring about where I would up, so long as I put distance between me and that foul creature.

I walked for what felt like hours, a fact backed up by my pocket watch, which showed that time was passing unusually slowly. Even so, the sun grew low in the sky even though I was no closer to making it out of this forest. It soon dawned on me that I had absolutely no idea how far I actually was from the house or even just the town, as Mal had teleported us here directly. 

Frustrated and tired, I sat beneath a tree and stared at my pocket watch, looking at the hands tick down towards night, where I would be even more vulnerable. Suddenly, I remembered what the pocket watch’s second function was. After searching around for a sharp rock, I bashed in the glass screen and picked out the surprisingly little mechanical components. As I had expected, the watch held a sigil drawn inside it.

It was surprisingly more complex than the ones drawn on the rocks, so I took Mal’s advice to heart and took it slowly. I sat and focused, trying to somehow channel as much of my available energy into the sigil which would take me home. I calmed my heartbeat and once I was ready, I clasped my hands around the watch and shut my eyes.

I felt a surge of power build up within me and suddenly burst outward in all directions. Once again, I felt that familiar and now comforting sensation of being freed of the Earth. I basked in the bright light as I felt the strength drain from me. I had appeased its demands though, as I felt my feet connect with the hardwood floor of that familiar hallway.

I stumbled, trying to catch my balance despite my fading strength. I had grown much stronger though, as I was able to stay standing despite the feat I had just accomplished. I looked around, unsure of the safety of the house. I weighed my options and decided that it would be worth the risk to use the other two stones again while checking out the house. 

I knew, as I held them in my hands, that I would not be able to power the sigils for long. So, as soon as I managed to power them, I burst into the living room. As it would turn out, I wouldn’t need to power them for very long, because Mal lay there, on one of the couches. The stones dropped to the floor as I rushed to her.

It was clear that she was not awake. At best, she would be sleeping and at worst, well, I didn’t even want to consider the worst. As I shook her, I learned of an even truer fear than the one invoked in me by the beast. And as her eyes opened up and her face twisted itself into a sly smile, I learned of a feeling that seemed to be the truest joy.

“It took you long enough,” she slurred out as she woke. 

“I’m sorry, I didn’t know what to do so I kept walking until it started to get dark. I ran out of options so I used the watch,” I spewed out quickly.

“It’s fine, it’s fine,” she reassured me as she sat up.

“Are you alright?”

“Yes, yes, just needed to rest for a bit. And it’s probably better that you waited so long to use the watch, there’s less of a chance that it would be able to track your using it.”

“What about your wound? I saw it slash you.”

“The wound is..a bit of a problem. Whatever that thing is, it’s devastating to time travelers. The Vortex energy in me can’t heal the wound.”

“Did you manage to kill it then?”

“Unfortunately no, but I did manage to deal it quite a bit of damage. It’s a being that thrives on Paradoxes, so all the Vortex energy in that lake must have felt like hell to it. It’ll take some time before it manages to even take form again.”

“It was a draw then,” I said, disappointedly.

“You could say that, yes.”

“What now then?”

“Now, we rest. It’s been quite the day. I’m not the fighter I used to be, that battle took a lot out of me. Not to mention that it’s been a really long time since I was properly injured.”

“Yeah, you do seem pretty shaken up.”

She reached out to me placed her hand beneath my chin before raising my head to meet her eyes. 

“I’ll be fine,” she said with that smile on her face. But even that smile wasn’t enough then to completely put my fears at ease.

“I’ll have to take your word for it,” I said, as I stood up. 

“There are some good things that came out of this though,” she remarked.

“What are those?”

“You had your metal tested. Once again, you exceeded all my expectations, both in your training today and in your actually putting those skills to use. I saw that you used the sigils again before entering the room, you really do seem cut out for this sort of thing.”

“Thanks,” I said, blushing from her compliments.

“Also, I think I remember a tale of an enemy The Order once fought that produced wounds that wouldn’t heal with Vortex energy.”

“Really?” I asked excitedly, interested in this sudden development.

“Yes. I don’t remember the specifics, but I know a way I can find out. We’ll work on that tomorrow.”

“Sounds like a good idea.”

“So, for now, we rest.”

“I agree,” I said, trying to stave off a yawn.

“Just one thing though,” she said with a meekness that was uncharacteristic of her.

“Yeah?” I said, confused.

“Would you mind sleeping out here tonight? Here’s the thing, I can’t actually sleep anymore. But there’s a strange comfort to be had in the peacefulness of someone while they sleep.”

“Sure, but where..”

She didn’t even wait for me to finish asking before sliding herself off of the couch and onto the ground. 

“This is the comfy one, so probably best to sleep here.”

“And you?”

“I’ll just sit here, it’s sort of what I do.”

“I’ve noticed,” I remarked as I dropped myself onto the couch. She was definitely right, it was quite comfortable. There was even a pillow on it already.

I rolled around, trying to bury myself in the cushions even more.

“Goodnight,” I muttered, already half-asleep. 

“Goodnight, and thanks,” she said warmly as she sat, awaiting morning.