---
layout: post
title:  "Day 7, Part 1: First Last Embrace"
author: "chaosking121"
---

It turned out, that the next day held a lot of walking. Mal had decided that in addition to conserving the Vortex energy within us both, walking would also calm our nerves and keep the location of the house a secret should we need to retreat. I mean, it wasn’t like she was wrong about any of those points, but it didn’t make the any less grueling.

Another thing that made the walk less than fun was the sheer weight that seemed to hang around us both. I barely managed to hold conversation with Mal for the entire morning, as she seemed to constantly be in a state of deep thought. So, we walked, and we walked in silence. As I trudged forward, I glanced down at the back of my wrists. Supposedly, there was a sigil there, although I couldn’t see it. I remembered then that I hadn’t even tested out using those new sigils the night before, adding even more worry to my already stressed out state of mind.

Despite her words of comfort the night before, I still felt particularly guilty about not being able to actively help Mal in the fight against this creature. But, there really was nothing I could do. Without more time and lake water, my training was put on indefinite hold. I did find some small comfort though, in the fact that at the very least, I wouldn’t be an obstruction to her or cause her needless worry during her fight.

As I raised my head to meet the back of hers as she intently walked down the sidewalk, I was reminded of my greatest source of worry yet. As much as she claimed that it would not hinder her fighting prowess, I knew deep down that the wound on her shoulder was a huge liability. I had awoken early that morning, unable to sleep. When I found her, she was in the living room practicing some strikes and attacks. And, while it was impossible for me to know if she was intently holding back, her movements seemed jarring and uncoordinated compared to her feats at the lake. I could only hope that she had caused the beast enough damage to make up for her decreased ability.

Trying to distract myself from thinking even more about the fight to come, I pulled out the new pocket watch Mal had given me earlier that morning. She explained that the sigil included in the watch was particular easy to cast due to its extreme specificity. That is, because it could only ever be used to get to that hallway in that particular house, it had an extremely low requirement for powering it. So, even though I had successfully used it that day to get home, there was little chance I could use a more general teleport sigil, let alone use one in battle.

As I idly rolled the watch around in the palm of my hand, I looked around the town. We had already walked through the entirety of the shopping district. We even stopped by the clothing store we had first encountered the beast, or rather, where it used to be. Instead we, were greeted by a blank stone wall, behind which there was nothing, according to a cursory look by Mal. After that, we even traversed an entire suburb development. Finally, we got to an industrial section, which I didn’t even know existed. 

Our walk was entirely solitary. Mal had remarked back in the shopping district that the creature was probably the one sustaining all those people, which is the reason they appeared to be so fake and continually avoided eye contact. As a result, when she pushed it into the lake, it probably had to stop sustaining all the people in order to recover more quickly.

 Indeed, as we walked, we were greeted by what seemed to be the aftermath of an apocalyptic scenario. Food went uneaten, strewn all over the floor. Cars seemed to have been abandoned in an instant, leaving them to crash and wreak havoc freely. Even the industrial zone, which would normally have been buzzing with the whirring of machinery, was eerily silent. 

Mal stopped and with an outstretched arm, stopped me as well. We had gotten to what I presume was our destination. Before us lay the rim of an expansive quarry, dotted here and there with large machinery and some half-completed building in the middle. Any relief that I would have felt knowing that our walk was over was completely and totally overtaken by the deep pit of apprehension within my stomach, which seemed to swallow up any other emotion I could have felt.

“Take my hand,” she said to me, speaking for the first time since her observation in the shopping district. 

I complied, placing my trust in her. She stepped forward, over the edge. We slid down the walls of the quarry, with Mal displaying incredible control over our trajectory. With her guiding hand, we safely made it to the floor of the quarry, which was coated in dust.

She gestured for me to follow her, as she walked briskly to one of the large machines left behind. As I studied it, I recognized it to be a large excavator. 

“You wait here, preferably inside the machine. It’ll provide an extra protection against any sort of explosion or debris being knocked around.”

“That sounds like a good idea,” I said, nodding.

“I’ll stand out there in the middle and send out a flare,” she said patting her pocket, before continuing, “once I do, activate your sigils and don’t turn them off until I say so. Understood?”

I nodded again, “Understood.”

“I’m going to stress one more time that I can handle this, but, in the event that I can’t. Please don’t try to be a hero. I gave you a new watch for a reason, use it to get home.”

“I won’t abandon you.”

“I’m not asking you to, but if I tell you to run, you run. Once you’re safe, I’ve got a few tricks up my sleeve that will probably help me out.”

“Alright,” I mumbled reluctantly.

“Good,” she said as she reached out and placed her hand on my shoulder, “I’ve faced much worse, you know. This isn’t my first rumble, I’ll be fine.”

I feigned a smile, hoping that at the very least, I could ease her worry by pretending to be free of any myself.

“So..”

“Yeah, we’ll have to part for now. I’ll be close by though. I drew the sigils in a way that I’ll be able to keep a track of where you are. If I feel like you’re ever in danger, I’ll act.”

“Thank you, but, one more thing.”

“Yes?”

“Let’s not say goodbye. I really don’t want this to be a goodbye.”

Suddenly, the hand on my shoulder found its way around me, as she pulled me in for an embrace. I did the same, holding her close as she whispered, “Me neither. I promise you, this isn’t going to be one.”

We soon pulled ourselves apart, and locked eyes once more, before she motioned for me to start climbing into the excavator and she started to walk towards the center of the quarry. 

Once there, she looked towards me and nodded, giving me the signal to fire up my sigils. I clenched my fists, despite the fact that there was nothing between them this time. Nevertheless, I felt that familiar sensation of the Vortex energy flowing through me. I looked at her and was greeted by a thumbs up as she raised her hand into the air and fired a flare.

And then, we waited.

