---
layout: post
title:  "Day 5, Part 1: A Source Of Great Power"
author: "chaosking121"
---

Much to my surprise, I awoke to see Mal sitting in the same place she had been when I had fallen asleep. As I groggily awoke and readjusted myself to the world around me, I appreciated how nice it was to wake up and not have a panic attack due to being completely lost. I took a nice, much needed stretch of my arms before walking towards her. 

“Good morning,” I said in between lengthy yawns. 

“Oh, you’re up?” she asked, turning to greet me with a warm smile.

In that moment, I felt all the weight on my shoulder melt away. It was as though the memory of that creature and the worry about my missing memories bared no significance in the presence of her smile. But, alas, I could not be rid of those feelings forever. Even so, as I walked up to the shore and sat beside her, I still felt like everything would be just fine so as long as she was beside me.

There was a silence suspended in the air between us. We both knew this peaceful moment could never last, no matter how desperately we both wanted it to. My idle hands traced the shore beneath us, and I soon started to skip rocks into the lake. I wasn’t very good at it, managing only one or two skips every time. Mal clearly took this as a challenge as she tossed a rock into the air, waved her hand in front of her and, almost as if it was guided by a sudden gust of wind, the rock sped off towards the lake with great speed. 

It managed to skip all the way to the other end of the lake.

“Show off,” I muttered under my breath as she laughed softly. 

“Did you use a sigil to do that?” I asked.

“Yeah, I used one to give the rock momentum. But the real trick is knowing how to aim it to get it to keep skipping.”

“Are you gonna teach me to do that?”

“Unfortunately, no. Skipping rocks is an ancient family secret of mine, guarded closely throughout the generations.”

“And here I was thinking I would soon be able to topple empires with my rock skipping skills.”

“To give you a proper answer though, I probably won’t teach you to do something like that right away. It’s actually quite difficult to use sigils to act on other objects.”

“So we need to pick something that acts on me directly?”

“Yeah, the easiest thing is probably just basic teleportation.”

“That sounds useful.”

“It will be in a fight. Even if all it does is let me act freely without having to worry about you, that’ll be a huge help.”

“It’ll have to do. After all, we can’t stay here forever, can we?”

There was a long pause before she replied.

“No, we can’t,” she said solemnly.

With a sign, she got up and stretched out her arm to pull me up as well.

“So, where do we start?”

“I marked out some simple sigils on rocks last night,” she said, reaching into her pocket.

She handed me a small rock, like the ones we were skipping earlier, before continuing.

“That rock there has the sigil for silence on it. It’s going to be the first one we try.”

“Alright, how do I use it?”

“Grasp it firmly and try to remember the sensation you feel when we teleport from place to place. I think you called it the flashy thing.”

I looked down at the unassuming gray stone in my hand before tightening my grip on it and closing my eyes. I tried then, to remember the feeling of being torn from the earth and surrounded by the brilliant, shining light. Suddenly, I felt every cell on my body scream out in shock. I dropped to my knees, overcome with the same feeling of fatigue that had wracked my body when I had first teleported.

As I struggled to catch my breath, I tried to call out for help, but I failed at even a simple task like that. My senses dulled, as I felt my strength leave me. However, just as I was ready to pass out, I felt Mal’s hand resting on my back. I tried to focus on her words, but I only managed to figure out that she was holding a cup in front of me. Assuming that she was instructing me to drink it, I used the last of my strength to grab it and gulp it down.

As the cool water flowed down my throat, I felt my body’s functions return to me. My senses followed shortly and it wasn’t long before I was able to sit up and catch my breath.

“Okay, I didn’t expect it to go so poorly right from the get go. You must have had more Vortex energy stored up than I assumed.”

“What was that water?” I managed to ask in between my deep breaths.

“Lake water. I brought you here for a reason after all. This lake seems to be a natural repository of Vortex energy. It’s why it feels so refreshing to bathe in.”

“And drinking it replenishes my supply?”

“Yes, so instead of working our way up slowly to using sigils, we can just let you skip right to the useful ones.”

“This is gonna suck,” I said, falling back onto the ground.

“I never said it would be easy, but I’m here to help you. I’m confident you can do this.”

I rolled over, not at all eager to relive that experience. Yet, her encouraging words had a profound effect on me. I figured that whatever else she had in store for me sure beat dying at the hands of that creature, so I pushed myself off the ground and picked up the stone again.

“Again,” I said, with renewed determination to get it right.

And I’d like to tell you that I got it right just then, but progress was actually very slow. At first, it was something small, like not immediately fainting. But as I tried again and again, I managed to stay standing for even two or three attempts. 

And, on my sixty-third try, I succeeded. It was hard to be sure, since there was no outward indication of success, but the feeling alone was enough to assure me that I had finally gotten it right. Instead of feeling like all my body’s energy was being sapped at once, the stone in my palm now felt like it was sipping the energy within me slowly. 

I turned to face her, who was looking on eagerly. I opened my mouth and bellowed out as loud as I could, with no immediate reaction from her. When she realized that I had succeeded, her eyes lit up with excitement. Pleased with my own success, I slowly eased my grip on the stone, feeling its sipping slowly come to a stop as I did. 

I looked up to her, surprised to see her running towards me giddily.

“You did it!” she shouted and she latched onto my arms.

“Yeah, looks like I did.”

“And it only took you sixty-three tries,” she said, laced with sarcasm.

“Very funny.”

“So, do you want to take a break?”

“Yeah, that’d probably be a good idea.”

“Let me go get another stone while you rest. In the meantime, drink up,” she said as she handed me another cup of the lake’s water.

I drank it slowly, very grateful for its existence. Instead of sitting, I opted to slowly walk around the lake. It turned out to be very calming, as the glistening water eased my fears. I wasn’t exactly making prodigal progress, but I was moving quite quickly compared to my expectations. Without even realizing it, I had turned around and soon made my way back to Mal, who was waiting with another stone in hand.

“This one should make you invisible. Together with the silence stone, you should be able to be nearly undetectable, even by that creature.”

“So, I need to use them both at the same time?”

“Yes, but let’s try to focus on just this one first. No need to get ahead of ourselves.”

She opened my hand and placed the stone in it.

“Whenever you’re ready,” she said as I looked down at the unassuming stone in my hand.

Much to her surprise, I clamped down on the stone right away. Unfortunately, my skills had not progressed as much as I had hoped, and this resulted in a repeat of my first try with the silence sigil. That is to say, I nearly passed out, again.

As I drank the water and slowly regained my strength after my failed attempt, Mal solemnly spoke, “You can’t just rush into it. What you’re trying to pull off is something that goes against nature. If you try to rush into this too recklessly, who knows what will happen? This sort of thing is something that The Order used to spread out across months, but here I am, trying to get you up to that level in just a few hours. So, take it easy, alright?”

The concern in her voice knocked some much needed sense into me. After resting and drinking even more of the lake’s water, I tried again. As expected, it wasn’t a success, but I was able to stay conscious this time, which was progress.

Our routine continued much like the first time around. However, this time it only took thirty-seven attempts before my first success. From there on, Mal suggested that I practice trying to sustain both for longer periods, which was much less punishing than my attempts at using them in the first place.

Finally, after managing to keep both up individually for fifteen minutes, Mal finally said to me, “It looks like you’re ready to try both at the same time.”

“Anything special I need to keep in mind?” 

“Not really, it should be pretty simple actually. Just remember that the drain on your body will be much higher than using either one individually.”

I nodded, trying to mentally prepare myself for this final challenge.

However, as I closed in my palms, I heard Mal shout, “Get down!”

And, without thinking, I obeyed, dropping my body onto the sandy shore as quickly as I could.