---
layout: post
title:  "Day 3, Part 1: Watch Me Watch You"
author: "chaosking121"
---

I awoke to a nudge, rolling me over in bed. As I pried open my eyes and was met with only darkness, instinct kicked in. Immediately assuming that there was something wrong, I jumped out of bed as those ingrained responses kicked in. Soon, my eyes adjusted to the the darkness and I was greeted by Mal, watching on with a pained expression as she tried to stop herself from laughing.

Overcome with embarrassment, I questioned her, “Why didn’t you turn on the lights?!”

“Well, good morning to you too. I didn’t think I had to.”

“You scared me.” 

“I can see that.”

“Why did you wake me up, anyway? It’s still dark outside.”

“Come with me,” she said as she walked out the door intently.

I followed without hesitation, having already decided that I would trust her. She led me out into the hallway and down into the living room where we had spoken yesterday. She started speaking as she walked.

“So, you may be wondering why you still aren’t hungry.”

“The thought has crossed my mind, yes.”

“I really hate to drop ‘I’ll explain it later’ on you, but it’s a part of a larger topic concerning time travel stuff.”

“The reason I haven’t been hungry is time travel?”

“Yeah, pretty much. It may be another few days until you need to eat again. You’ll need to start drinking water again before that though. You should actually already be sort of thirsty.”

She spun around and threw me a cold bottle of water.

“Drink up, we’ve got a long day ahead and I can’t have you fainting on me again.”

As I looked down at the bottle, with drips of condensation forming on it, I felt the resurgence of the sensation of thirst within me.”

“As you haven’t felt thirsty since you woke up without your memories. It’s entirely possible that you actually weren’t even aware of what it felt like to be thirsty,” she informed me.

“That’s so strange,” I muttered as I opened the bottle and gulped down its refreshing contents.

“It’s one of the many, many strange things surrounding time travel.”

“Won’t you explain them to me?”

“Soon. We’ve got some work to do today, so it’ll have to wait.”

“What are we doing today?”

“Hold on. I need to get something from my room, give me a minute,” she shouted as she ran down the hallway.

I heard the door open and shut again at the end of the hall. As I waited, I found myself staring out one of the windows and to my surprise, I was able to witness the sunrise. I stood and watched as the sun broke over the horizon. The sight, while beautiful, filled me with a sense of unease. I struggled to articulate the source of my discomfort, and I was so engrossed in thought about it that I didn’t hear her leave her room.

Instead, she startled me by speaking out from right next to me, “It’s beautiful isn’t it?”

After regaining my composure, I replied, “Yes, it is.”

“So, here’s what I had to get.”

She handed me a pocket watch. As I rolled it around in my palm, I was surprised by the heft of it. It definitely seemed to be a durable device. The outside was metal, with a pleasant soft green color. I pressed the button and it flipped open with a gratifying thud. To my surprise, there was just an ordinary watch inside.

She must have noticed my confusion because she started explaining right away, “It’s a special watch.” 

“I’ve got one too, see?” she asked, holding it up for me to see.

“Anyway, the watch on the right works like a normal one, except it’s synced to the time of this town. I’ve set it so that sunrise and sunset happen at six and that noon is when the sun is at its highest. It isn’t the most accurate, but it’s going to help us keep track of time during the day.”

“I see. So if time starts to pass erratically, the watch will reflect that?”

“That’s exactly right. We still don’t know what this town holds, so I want us to be back by sunset every day.”

“Shouldn’t I know how to get home then? In case we get separated? I remember looking out last night at the light from the town. It seemed quite far.”

“Good thing you’re a time traveler then.”

“That still hasn’t sunk in.”

“That’s alright, it took years for me.”

“How does that help me though?”

“It’s only to be used as a last resort, but if you smash the watch and pull out the clocks, there are instructions that will help you get back here safely. Well, relatively safely. Like I said, it’s a last resort.”

“I see. This definitely seems like it’ll be helpful keeping up with this place. You’re prepared for anything, aren’t you?”

“Well, when you’ve been around for as long as I have, you tend to build up a sizable collection of knick-knacks.”

I closed the watch and clutched it in my hand. Even though her presence soothed my worry, I still couldn’t completely rid myself of the unease I felt when I had watched the sunrise earlier. 

“What’s wrong?,” she asked, noticing my expression.

“There’s just something bothering me about the sunrise, but I can’t put my finger on it.” I said as I looked up to watch the sunrise once again. As I stood, looking out the window with Mal at my side, I couldn’t help but feel a certain sense of deja vu. Suddenly, it all clicked in my head.

“That’s it!” I exclaimed.

“Huh?”

“This is the same window we were standing at yesterday when the sun set.”

Her eyes opened wide, as it dawned on her. She seemed to rack her brain for memories of last night, trying to confirm what I was suggesting. Next, her eyes darted to the window, then down again at her open pocket watch.

“No, it’s definitely rising,” she said under her breath.

I couldn’t help but speak as well, “So, just to confirm what we’re both thinking. Is the sun rising in the same direction as it set last night?”

“It seems that way.”

“Have you ever seen anything like this?”

“Well, I’ve seen the same thing happen before, but it was on a planet that had an extremely unusual axis of rotation.”

“And that can’t happen here, right?”

“No, on the contrary, I’m not feeling any sort of rotation at all.”

“What? You can feel that?”

“Yes, I can. I never bothered to check because it’s just something you don’t really think about.”

“But you did just now and…?”

“Something is very wrong with this town. More than I previously thought.”

As I watched her, it was plain even to me just how frustrated she was. Between her furrowed brow and the contortion of her lips, there was no questioning it. But, even in her worries, she seemed to take things up a few notches. Her existence shifted from one of grace to one of fury, and in that moment I was absolutely sure that her threat the day before was a completely valid one.

“What now then? Does this change anything?”

“It doesn’t, except that we really need to get a move on.”

“Alright, well where do we start?”

“I’ll explain as we go.”

“Sounds good to me.”

“Grab on,” she instructed me as she outstretched her hand.

She must have noticed my hesitation as well as the look of worry on my face, because she quickly remarked, “Don’t worry, I’ll do the heavy lifting from now on. Like I said, can’t have you fainting on me.”

Eased by her claim, I reached out and placed my hand in hers. Once again, I was greeted by a brilliant flash of light as the ground disappeared from under me. This time around though, the sensation was strangely comforting. It really was remarkable how much changed those past two days. As my feet reconnected with the ground, I even held a childlike sense of wonder about what awaited me as the light faded. 

