---
layout: post
title:  "Day 4, Part 2: Die, Just A Little"
author: "chaosking121"
---

Mal must have been feeling quite worried as well, because we had been relaxing in the lake for quite some time before she returned to the matter at hand.

“So, what do you know about time travel?” she inquired suddenly.

“Not much. Nothing at all really.”

“Really, you’ve never seen a show like Death-19 or Doctor Who?”

“If I have, I can’t remember them.”

“Alright, alright. So, we’re starting with a blank slate.”

“Well, I think I understand that the basic concept is moving through time.”

“Technically we’re all moving through time at one second per second.”

“I never really thought about it that way.”

“Actually, it’s probably for the best that you don’t remember any of those things. I won’t have to waste time dealing with misconceptions. I can get right down to the grit of it.”

“Sounds good with me.”

“Alright, just stop me if you have any questions.” 

“Yup.”

“Trying to use analogies to describe time isn’t very helpful, there really isn’t else much like it that humans come across. Time itself is like a grand fabric that, along with space, exists throughout the universe. In fact, that fabric is probably what defines the universe itself. What I can describe more easily though, is how we pass through time. Mostly everything in creation passes through time and space at a set rate, and you can divvy that up so that you move through space quickly and time very slowly, or the reverse.”

“Isn’t that time dilation?”

“So you don’t remember a classic like Death-19 but you remember time dilation?”

“It definitely seems that way.”

“I’ll try to ignore that. Anyway, the beings that hold the title of time traveler are ones that have interacted with the time aspect of the fabric independently of the space aspect. If one could separate oneself from the space field entirely, you would be able to move freely in the time without having to do silly things like conserve momentum or energy.”

“I think I follow, but how would you go about removing yourself from space like that?”

“There’s this thing called the Vortex. It’s not really the most accurate name, but it stuck around anyway. It’s also not really a single thing..more like it’s a place where the fabric breaks down and reveals space and time as distinct things. And, if you interact with such places in just the right way, you can produce vast amounts of energy.”

“Wait, so that means we can reverse entropy?”

“You remember the oddest of things. But, the answer is no. This energy exists independently of space and can’t interact with things that exist in space-time. That’s where time travelers come in. Once you’re exposed to the Vortex by traveling through time alone, there’s a bit of you that never really completely readjusts to existing in space-time. The people I worked with, who I’ll get to in a bit, they tried to figure out why that’s the case, but they never really made any progress.”

“Oh..”

“I think I may have an idea though.”

“What do you think?”

“Every time we move through time, we damage the fabric a tiny bit. Even moving forward in time causes a tiny tear in it, and space-time doesn’t take too kindly to that. It rejects a part of us, dooming it to remain within the Vortex.”

“That sounds unpleasant.”

“Eh, it’s not really a big deal for most people. It’s not really a physical part of you, but more like the concept of you.”

“That doesn’t really make me feel any better about it. How does this help with the energy though?”

“Oh, right. So, because there’s now a bit of you that doesn’t exist in space, it can store and use the energy that seeps out of the Vortex, aptly called, you guessed it, Vortex energy.”

“You lot aren’t very good at naming things aren’t you?”

“No…”

“At least it’s easy to remember.”

“I suppose it is. Moving on, that energy is stored within the parts of you that get rejected by space-time. Normally, it’ll just remain dormant until you die and the concept of your existence gradually fades away. It’s actually not unusual for regular people to have a tiny bit of it in them all through their lives. All it takes is a bit of deja vu and suddenly, you’re got a tiny, tiny amount of Vortex energy inside of you.”

“Doesn’t that mean that everyone is a time traveler?”

“Not quite. In smaller amounts, the energy can’t really be used for anything. In slightly larger amounts, like what you’d absorb from a proper jump through time, the energy will be spontaneously used to aid bodily function. Everything, from staving off hunger, to healing wounds or even removing the need to breath. In the largest quantities, it can even keep you alive after death for a short period of time.”

“That’s why I haven’t been hungry since I got here… and it’s why I was able to recover from that concussion so quickly.”

“Yeah, it’s because there’s a part of you that stored quite a bit of Vortex energy. Just having a bit of Vortex energy in you doesn’t make you a time traveler though. We call people who have an actionable amount of Vortex energy to be time sensitives, most of whom do have the potential to become a time traveler?”

“So what separates the time sensitives from the time travelers?”

“Humans aren’t ordinarily able to consciously command the Vortex energy that’s stored within them, and that was just how things were. Until a group of people discovered an ancient object called the Truth. There are rumors about it aplenty, but it most likely took the form of a book, which contained instructions for manipulating the Vortex to the will of humans. Those instructions manifested themselves in sigils, markings in a language well beyond any human language.”

“How does that help though?”

“That group of people, who soon took up the name The Order, quickly learned that by drawing those sigils and flowing Vortex energy through them, they were able to move freely through time. As human society progressed, so too did the power of the Order. Eventually, they created great ships, powered by dozens of time travelers, and used the power of the Vortex to spread out throughout the galaxy.”

“So those ships were basically massive time machines?”

“Yeah, the Order built a huge variety of them. They made time machines of many types, growing increasingly complex. At first, they were one time use, with specific sigils for a particular destination. But they eventually learned enough about the sigils to create ones that could be used again and again, with the destination being controlled by the will of user.”

“Wait..my pocket watch. I have a sneaking suspicion that underneath the clock inside it, there’s a sigil that you put there to take me back home. Right?”

“You catch on quick. Yes, that’s exactly right.”

“But, when you do that flashy thing and teleport us around, you aren’t using any sort of time machine. At least, any that I’ve noticed.”

“Again, that’s right. Listen closely, I wasn’t sure if I should mention it, but I was a member of The Order. Specifically, I quickly rose through their ranks because of what many people called my enormous potential for time travel. In the end, I made it further than any other. I alone am capable of manifesting sigils in my mind and using them to move through time. I still can’t do large jumps without the use of a physical vessel for the sigils, and it takes some time to form the ones in my mind. So, it’s definitely not perfect, but it still earns me the title of the strongest time traveler to have ever lived.”

“I’m not sure what to say. I mean, I’m not an idiot. I realized that you were quite something, but I never even thought that you were the best.”

“I’m not just the best, I’m the last.”

“The last? I don’t understand.”

“Unfortunately, that’s another story for another time.”

“Wait, there’s something else that’s bothering me.”

“You said that time travel was only possible once people found the Truth, right?”

“That’s correct.”

“Is it also correct in assuming that they used the Truth to time travel even more, and by doing so, they absorbed more Vortex energy and were able to increase their abilities?”

“Yes.”

“Then how did they start out? How did the first group of people power the sigils that would have led them to obtain power in the first place? You said that most people possess a tiny bit, it didn’t sound like it would be enough to power the sigils.”

“There was probably a first, if that makes sense. The higher ups of The Order theorized from the early days that the founding members were given their first taste of time travel by another time traveler. One that predated the Order and maybe even the Truth. We found signs of him wherever we went, of someone who had been there before us. We never found him, not even in the end. We gave him the name, the Shadow King, as a result of his elusiveness.”

“It doesn’t make sense though, how did he start time traveling?”

“I know it’s not a satisfying answer, but the reality of it is that we just don’t know. In the end, his actual existence is still just a myth. No one has ever seen him, no record of any interaction that we can verify. Even accounts of his appearance vary widely between the ages. It’s yet another unsolved mystery surrounding time travel.”

“There are others?”

“Yes, namely, ones surrounding the nature of the Truth. What is it? Where did it come from? I know it’s said that it was given by the Shadow King to the founding members of the Order, but they were dead and gone long before anyone had the forethought to ask about it.”

“It’s a lot to take in.”

“Take your time.”

“So, the reason that I can store and use the Vortex energy is because someone used time travel to send me here?”

“That’s probably the case, although I can’t be certain you weren’t already a time sensitive by the time that happened.”

“Then my memories would have been wiped at the same time?”

“It’s likely, yes.”

“But you said you were the last time traveler?”

“That’s a matter of perspective. We’re still not sure where and when you’re from. It could easily be that you’re from a time when time travelers were in abundance, although it doesn’t explain why you were sent here, or why your memories were wiped.”

“Do you think there’s any chance I could recover them?”

“There’s a strong possibility that they were simply locked away. I’ve got a few ideas about how we could try to get them back, but first we got to deal with the thing we fought yesterday.”

“Any idea how we’re going to do that?”

“Yes, and that’s related to the last part about time travel.”

“Oh, there’s more?”

“Yes. We need to cover Paradoxes.”

“Oh, those.”

“Yes, those. So far, I’ve only really mentioned using time travel to travel forwards in time or using it to quickly travel across vast expanses of space. But, even those acts, which should be completely fine, still cause tiny wounds in space-time, which is what ends up causing the rejection that allows for time sensitives to exist in the first place.”

“I’m following.”

“Well, imagine the kind of damage that going back in time would cause.”

“It would probably be massive.”

“Yes, even going back a few minutes to save a loved one would probably cause enough of someone to be rejected that the Vortex energy they would absorb could drive them mad..or worse.”

“Worse?”

“Yes, there were stories, within The Order, of those who thrived on creating these paradoxes. Some say that in their madness, they grew even more powerful than The Order’s strongest members. It was even suggested that in their madness, they found new sigils, not present in the Truth, that afforded them great power.”

“Powerful and mad, they sound dangerous.”

“They were, and it was The Order’s purpose to prevent them from existing. In addition to using their power to advance human progress, ever since its inception, The Order was tasked with correcting and preventing paradoxes, which invariably led us to clash with a few of these beings who seemed to thrive off of them. Fortunately, those clashes were few and far between, as their strength often brought great losses to The Order.”

“So, you think that the beast from last night may be one of those things?”

“It’s possible. A long time ago, I wondered what it would be like if one were to damage the fabric enough that one’s entire existence would be rejected, rather than a small part.”

“And you think what we saw last night was an example of that?”

“I can’t be sure, but it’s my best guess right now.”

“So, what does that mean for our plan of action?”

“Well, I think we’re safe here and it looks like the sun is setting, so I think we should call it a night. I’ve just dumped an entire world of info on you, so I should give it time to soak in.”

“It is getting pretty late,” I said as I looked up at the sun, lowering itself beyond the horizon.” 

“There’s a camp off to the side there. This morning while you were asleep I snuck into the house and got some spare clothes for us.”

“Oh, so that’s where you went,” I said, as we slowly waded our way to the shore.

“Yup. Any more questions about the whole time travel thing?”

“Well, not really a question but more of a request. Do you think we could try tomorrow to teach me some of those sigils or how to use them? I know we’ll come across that creature again and I would really like to not be as useless as last time.”

“It’s good that you asked that. I was going to suggest the same. It’s already pretty late though, so we’ll work on it tomorrow. We might not be able to get much done in a day, but you’ve got a knack for this, so you may just surprise me yet.”

“That works with me,” I said with a grin as we climbed back onto the land.

In a turn of events that surprised absolutely no one, by the time we had gotten out onto the shore, the sun had already set. Wanting to get as much sleep as possible before my training the next day, I quickly changed into the clothes Mal had brought. I was also pleasantly surprised to find that she had brought a sleeping bag as well, a welcome change from my night on the ground the night before.

The lake water’s soothing effects still permeated my body as I found myself ready to fall asleep nearly immediately. As I did though, I looked to the side, at Mal. She was sitting on the shore of the lake, no doubt deep in thought about how we would overcome the creature. In any case, it was probably best not to disturb her. And that worked out just right for me, as I drifted off into sleep.