---
layout: post
title:  "Day 10, Part 1: Password Please"
author: "chaosking121"
---

When I finally awoke, Mal was nowhere around me. I had grown used to her being awake before me though, so I simply took my time in fully waking up with a variety of stretches and yawns before making my way to the living room, where she sat, deep in thought. I was not surprised in the slightest. 

I walked towards her and dropped myself onto the couch opposite hers. I even coughed loudly, trying to get her attention, but she still seemed engrossed in whatever was on her mind. So I called out to her.

“Hey, are you there?”

She looked up, startled that I was even awake. 

“Oh, um, hi. How long have you been awake?”

“A few minutes now. You looked pretty deep into whatever you were thinking about.”

“Yeah, I was just thinking about the things we said yesterday, before I passed out.”

“Listen, before you say anything else, I just want to make it clear that I meant what I said. I had a lot of time last night to think it over and as far as I’m concerned, nothing changes for me. You’re still you, no matter what you show me.”

“I don’t think you understand what kind of life you’re dooming yourself to.”

“No, I don’t. But I will understand one day. And there’s something inside me that has me sure that when that day comes, when I truly understand what I’ve decided, that I’ll look back on this day and truly believe that I did the right thing.”

“I suppose there’s no arguing with you.”

“There isn’t. But, Mal?”

“Yes?”

“Are you really dead?”

My question must have taken her by surprise, as she hesitated for a moment before beckoning me over to her and taking my hand in hers. She placed it right over her heart, where I felt nothing at all. There wasn’t even a slight tremor to say that it was just beating really slowly. 

I pulled my hand away slowly and instinctively pressed it to my own chest to feel the rhythmic thump of my own heart. There really was no doubting it, Mal was dead.

“I’m sorry,” she said to me.

“It’s alright,” I replied, “there wasn’t a time to tell me before yesterday.”

“So, now you understand, after my battle with the beast a few days ago, I’m really running on fumes by this point. I don’t think the Vortex energy left in me can keep me going for much longer.”

“Then why didn’t you drink more of the lake water or something to refresh yourself?”

“It’s not the amount of energy I have that’s decreasing alone, but also how much I can store. So there’s no way to get back to what my power used to be.”

“I see, there really is an end approaching, isn’t there?”

“Yes, and that’s why we need to act quickly. I made a promise to you that I would help you regain your memories, and it just so happens that I have just the tool for the job.”

She stood up and we both walked down the hall to the door that held the Hall of Memory.

“Alright, so this time we want to try and access your memories. You’ll need to hold the doorknob. There are sigils within the door that will handle everything for you. Just flow some power through them and once you’re ready, open the door.”

“Sounds simple enough,” I said softly. I gripped the door handle and closed my eyes to concentrate. True to her word, I was able to quickly sense the sigils within the door. I focused and attempted to connect with them and activate them. Unlike my first attempts to use a new sigil at the lake, I found it very easy to use the sigils in the door and after ensuring that I was able to keep them powered, I turned the door handle and pushed the door open.

Totally unlike the balcony we had been greeted with when Mal had used the room, we entered to find ourselves in a tiny metal enclosure, with Mal confirmed was very sturdy with a few quick punches. 

“This doesn’t make any sense,” she muttered. 

“What’s this?” I asked, pointing to a mail slot like opening near eye level on the wall directly opposite the door. There was a metal cover on it, on the other side of the metal walls. I walked towards it, and I reached out and knocked loudly on the metal wall in front of me. I’m not sure what I expected, but the metal cover on the slot slid open to reveal a pair of piercing green eyes. 

“What? Mal? Is that you?” I blurted out.

“That’s not the password,” the woman behind the wall replied.

“What password are you talking about?” Mal asked from behind me, clearly as confused as I was.

“You need the password to enter.” the woman behind the wall said nonchalantly. 

“Is there a password hint?” I asked, grasping at straws.

“There is.”

“Can we have it?” Mal pleaded.

“The girl with the green eyes must revisit her death and birth. Their fates are intertwined, but they don’t yet know. If only they did.”

As we tried to digest the cryptic hint that we had been given, the woman behind the wall shut the mail slot without giving us time to ask anything else. Both Mal and I stammered out of the tiny metal enclosure that blocked our entry into the Hall and Memory. I felt a tiny sliver of relief as I noticed from her furrowed brows and wide eyes that she was just as confused as I was.

“It keeps happening,” she eventually blurted out.

“What does?” I asked, even more confused.

“I keep thinking that after a couple hundred thousand years, you pretty much have everything figured out, but the more time I spend with you, the more I find myself confused and lost. That’s really not something that happens too often but you just seem to invite the strange and odd right into your life.”

“I suppose that’s why I met you then.” 

“I have no doubt that it certainly played a roll.”

“So, any ideas at all?”

“Well, the hint said that I need to revisit my death and birth, but I’m not sure where my birth is.”

“So that leaves your death. If we assume your attempt at the lake was cut short, then…”

“That leaves the day of the explosion.”

A silence hung in the air after that. I debated in my mind before deciding that even if it was the only way to recover my memory, that I could not ever ask her to return to that horrible day. 

“She said our fates were intertwined. So it may really be our only choice…”

“Mal, I can’t ask you to do that.”

“That isn’t your choice to make. I promised that I would help you regain your memories, and we may have just found the only possible lead we ever will. You’ve stuck with me more than anyone else, I can’t abandon you, not ever and certainly not now.”

“Are you sure?”

“You’re not the only stubborn one, you know.”

I chuckled at her joke. The two of us were alike in more ways than one. 

“But, even if you are willing, we already watched your memory of it yesterday.”

“I don’t think whatever we’re looking for is in my memory.”

“Then how?”

She smirked, then pulled out a shining gem from her pocket. I recognized it instantly as the beast’s Core, that we had taken from it, killing it and securing our victory.

“This Core helped keep the beast alive by cementing it in the world no matter how much it wanted to correct the paradox the beast caused and erase it. With a little preparation, I can use it to sort of project us to the day that the explosion occurred. We won’t really be there, but we can walk around freely and see things from perspectives other than my own.”

“Won’t we cause a paradox if we change anything though?”

“We won’t be able to interact with any normal beings. In theory, a powerful enough time traveler could interact with us, but the only one capable of that would be me and I’m already accounted for on that day.”

“So, we should be safe right?”

“Yes, we should be.”

“How we get this working then?”

“I’ll need to draw a fairly large sigil. It’ll have to be in the yard.”

“How do we get outside the house anyway? We’ve only ever teleported in here.”

“I lost the keys to the front door almost a million years ago.”

“Very funny.”

“But, I do know another way outside.”

With a devious grin on her face, she ran to the window in the living room and opened it up. I caught up to her just in time to hear her give me one last warning with a smile.

“Don’t land on your head.”

Then, she jumped. I looked on, unable to stop myself from comparing the events that just happened to what I had seen Mal do in her memory. I couldn’t help but shed a tear, as the contrast between her tears and her smile cemented in my heart that I had make the right choice.

And so, I climbed out the window just as she did. The Vortex energy within me helped me a great deal with controlling my landing, and I was able to roll as I hit the ground to avoid injury.

Hearing the thud I made as I hit the ground, she called out to me from around the corner of the house.

“Over here!”

I walked slowly towards her, as if running would just shorten the time I had left with her. Perhaps all things came to an end after all. But, as I rounded the corner and saw her busy at work laying out stones in some eccentric shape, I couldn’t help but feel as though even the eventual end that awaited us couldn’t tarnish the moments where she smiled.