---
layout: post
title:  "Day 8, Part 2: A Deadly Sense of Premonition"
author: "chaosking121"
---

I walked out the room, freshly changed. Mal was waiting for me in the hallway, wearing new clothes for what I only then realized was the first time since I had arrived. Her choice in her own clothing mimicked her choice in mine, as she donned a knee length black dress with a single green stripe down the front. 

“Let’s go,” she said, with her arm outstretched.

Eager to see what she had in store for me, I reached out and grasped her hand. Once again, I was greeted by that now very familiar flash of light. When we reconnected with the earth, we found ourselves in an amusement park. As I looked around, the colorful and whimsical decor contrasted terrifyingly with the desertedness of it all, as we were presumably the only two living things in the entire town. 

But, as she took my hand and ran forward excitedly, the world seemed to fill up with her presence. It actually seemed fitting. Only a world so empty could ever begin to hold the sheer magnitude of her existence. And, as I ran alongside her through the unguarded gates to the park, her contagious excitement overtook me as well.

Suddenly, she came to stop.

“Shoot, there’s no power. I’ll be back in a second,” she said as she disappeared suddenly from view. I took that moment to look around at what the park had to offer. Most obviously, there was a ferris wheel, towering over all the other attractions. Seeing it caused fear to well up in my stomach. Although I could not remember it, it seemed as though I was afraid of heights.

But, the park had many more attractions. Although none were as towering as the ferris wheel, a number of small roller coaster dotted the park with a few more calm rides scattered throughout the park as well. There also were a huge number of booths and stalls, although they were now all empty. Noticing their void of life had returned the eerie sensation to me, reminding again of just how impossible our situation seemed. 

Nevertheless, I reminded myself that I was glad to have spent the time with her that I was able to. It had been quite the experience, there was no denying, but there was a charm about her that seemed to captivate me. Even at the verge of death, I was thankful to have met her. But, while I waited for her return, the sneaking suspicion that this life could not go on forever began to overtake me. I fought it down though, after all, she had said that today we would celebrate. There would be time for questions another day.

Coincidentally, at that very moment, the park flickered to life. The vibrant neon lights and characteristic music resumed, as if there had been no disruption. Most of the rides sprung alive as well, with the ferris wheel in the distance slowly starting to turn. And with a soft thud, Mal returned to her spot by my side.

“That’s more like it, don’t you agree?”

“Definitely,” I replied, now that she was once again by my side.

“So, what first?”

“What about there?” I asked, pointing to a small booth with one of those ‘shoot the bottle’ games.

“Sounds good,” she said, rushing to the booth. 

I followed, wondering how we would run the thing. By the time I caught up to her, her outstretched arm revealed that she intended to use a sigil to line up the bottles off the floor. And in an instance, they were perfectly placed along the back of the booth, waiting to be shot.

“This could use a little sprucing up, don’t you think?” she asked suddenly. 

Before I even had a chance to reply, she was concentrating intensely. And, with a snap of her fingers, the world around us seemed to shift. The makeshift rubber band guns that were intended to be used had morphed into large menacing rifles, and the bottles had been replaced miniature versions of the beast we had defeated, dressed in a bad Christmas sweater. The booth itself had changed into a large expansive field, split along the middle into two halves, one for each of us.

“First to a hundred wins!” she shouted at me as she grabbed her rifle.

Not wanting to be totally decimated by her, I quickly grabbed mine as well and started to aim at the little beasts that ran around the field before me. It took a few shots to get used to the kickback, and a few more to get my aim steady enough to even hit a single one. By then, she was already into the double digits.

Suddenly overcome by competitive spirit, I felt the Vortex energy well up inside me as I stymied my breath and took careful and precise aim. Even my muscle movements were improved by the energy, as I hit my next target in as single shot. Pleased with my improvement, I began to mow them down one after the other. 

Thankfully, they reappeared quickly after being killed and I was able to keep up the pace. I looked across to Mal to find that we were neck in neck at fifty points. She looked across at the same time and her smug look turned to one of shock as she noticed we were tied. Realizing that what she thought was a clear win was now in jeopardy, she also doubled down, determined to win. 

But, so was I. And as we continued to load the little beasts with lead, we both inched closer to the winning score. And, it seemed within grasps. I had managed to pull of a tiny sprint somewhere around the eighty point mark, and was now leading her ninety-five with my ninety-nine. Victory was so close I was just about ready to flaunt my victory in her face.

That was, until she shouted, “Alt fire mode!” and launched a grenade from the under-barrel of her gun. With impeccable aim and timing, she managed to kill five of the critters at once, allowing her to steal the win from right under me. I was initially very upset that I had lost due to such dubious actions, but I decided to let it slide. There was little point in being upset with someone with the power to fundamentally change the game so drastically. Instead, I conceded defeat and let here wear that massive grin without a fight.

As we walked away, I turned back to look at the booth and found it exactly as it had always been. Internally, I was shocked to find that just a day after her torturous battle with the beast, that she was capable of such feats.

“How did you do that anyway?”

“The thing with the guns and the room?”

“Yeah, it all felt so real.”

“It was illusion magic mostly, but I’ve got a lot of experience with it, so it seems real.”

“Why couldn’t you have used something like that yesterday?”

“It’s just an illusion in the end. If either of us really wanted to see reality, it would be simple. Casting stuff like that is relatively efficient because we hold the desire for it to be real in our hearts. Without that desire, it’ll start to fade.”

“I see. So what else can you do?”

“There was a time I could probably create a star, when I was at the peak of my power.”

“You mean an illusion of one, right?”

“No, an actual star.”

“Did you ever try?”

“No, it would probably have killed me, but I could certainly have done so.”

“And this is all time travel, how exactly?”

“To create that star, I’d have to pull all the required hydrogen across space and time from wherever it was, to where the star would be. Since I’d be moving all of it through time directly, it’s technically time travel.”

“I can’t even begin to understand that kind of power.”

“It wasn’t exactly common.”

“I’m going to guess that it was only ever you.”

“Yes, it was.”

There was a solemn tone to her voice that was not befitting our day of celebration, so I quickly tried to change the topic.

“So what next?”

“Actually, I’ve got a really cool idea. Come on,” she said, excitedly.

She led me to one of the smaller roller coasters. It seemed to feature a section that ran through a dark tunnel. One benefit of being the only two people around was the lack of lines, which we greatly appreciated as we walked right up to one of the cars and buckled ourselves in. With a quick flick of her wrist, Mal used a sigil to set the roller coaster in motion, and we were on our way.

The ride built up slowly, climbing to a peak, which terrified me, before dropping sharply and accelerating madly. If there had been any sort of solid food left in me, I’m pretty sure it would not be after that drop. And, true to the ride’s advertised twist, the car quickly veered into a pitch black tunnel. But, even in the darkness, I was able to feel that she was at work bringing to life whatever idea she had planned.

I knew it had worked when I began to see what looked like stars in the distance. And, as the car continued on for far longer than it should have, a particularly close star came into view. 

“We’re in space,” I stammered, taken aback by the sheer scale of it.

“Don’t worry, it’s just an illusion,” she said, as her hand reached out to hold mine. With both our hands, she pointed out the objects before us.

“That’s a planetary nebula,” she said, pointing to the dark cloud that surrounded the star. It stretched out as far as I could see in any direction, but I could tell something was changing inside it as I saw a clump form. 

“The first rocky planet,” she remarked, pointing to it. Soon, there were many of them, scooping up the dust like vacuums. They spun rapidly around the star, and it was only then that I realized what we were looking at was the life of entire star. The planets, as I had realized they were, came and went, even crashing into each other. Meanwhile, the star continued to burn a brilliant yellow. I sat and watched as coronal mass ejections came and went, with Mal narrating the entire thing. 

Soon, the star had used up all its hydrogen, she told me. It began to expand outward, engulfing the remaining planets. Its hue had shifted to a deep, scorching red, as she informed me that it began to fuse heavier elements in its core. She warned me to get ready, as it was about to fuse iron. 

And, in an instance, the massive star shred itself to pieces in a tremendous explosion. I saw its outer layers sent blasting out, and I saw the remnants of that massive star form a tiny spec in the distance. She called it a neutron star. I watched on as it stood, a ghost of the massive star that remained. Its brilliance perhaps even surpassed that of its former self, as it stood alone, unrivaled in its ferocity. 

With that, our little tour of the life of a star came to an end. And our car emerged from the dark tunnel back into the blinding light. We came to a stop and sat for a while before disembarking. After all, there were no employees to rush us anymore. There was just us. 

We eventually moved onto to other rides or booths, with Mal using her sigils to make each one an exhilarating experience. There were many laughs and smiles that day. From her stint wrestling with a crocodile, to our ‘trek’ up the Alps, to our special retelling of the lunar landing involving a an ancient space-faring race of cats, she made everything seem so much more magnificent than the mundane attractions of a small town’s amusement park.

But, as the sun hung low in the sky, we had finally made it to the final voyage. Before us stood the ferris wheel, towering over everything else the park had to offer. 

“Alright, here at last.”

“I’m not sure we should go on it,” I said, meekly.

“Why’s that?” she asked as she turned to face me.

“I think I’m afraid of heights,” I said softly, ashamed.

Instead of being mocked for my silly fear like I had expected, she reacted to this with an expression that bordered on dread. I ended up having to poke her arm to get her to return to normal. 

“What was that about?” I asked, worriedly.

“Premonition,” she whispered.

“About what?”

“Can’t be sure, but whatever it is, it’ll find its way to us eventually.”

“I suppose that makes sense.”

“So are we riding this thing or what?”

“Well,…”

“I’m going to point out that yesterday we defeated a monster of truly tremendous power. You were able to slice its arm off, but a ferris wheel terrifies you?”

“Well, when you put it like that.”

“That’s what I thought,” she said, smugly as she opened the door to one of the compartments along the wheel and gesturing for me to enter.

I sat nervously as she filed in beside me. With a flick of her wrist, she managed to power up the engines and we set off, to the top of the wheel. Even though she made perfect sense with her argument about a ferris wheel scaring me considering our battle the day before, I was still terrified most of the journey up. I ended up gripping her hand tightly to keep me sane throughout our ascent.

But, once we got to the top, and she stopped the engines so we could stay there, I began to warm up to the whole ferris wheel thing. Namely because of the amazing view that sprawled out before me. The entire town could be seen before us, from the shopping district where the clothing shop had once been, to the quarry where we had defeated the beast. We were even able to see a house all the way off into the forest, which I assumed was Mal’s. 

As I took in the views, I forgot all about my fear and I simply relaxed. It certainly helped that she let her head rest against my own, as we watched the sunset in the distance from our vantage point. In that moment, I truly felt content. And, I felt a certain safety knowing that whatever challenges the future would hold as we tried to recover my memories, that she would be right alongside me trying to solve it.

Knowing that neither of our journeys were over, we stayed there for a long time, embracing the serenity that existed in that moment. It seemed wrong almost, for us to have enjoyed such a time together despite the madness that surrounded us. And it was never clearer than at the top of that ferris wheel, overlooking that empty and strange town, that we were at the center of something truly chaotic. But, as I had done many times that day, I pushed those thoughts to the back of my mind. 

“Ready to head back?” she asked suddenly, breaking the silence.

“Has to happen eventually, all things do.” I replied with a sigh.

“Do you really think that?”

“Think what?”

“That all things must come to an end.”

“I’ve never really thought about it much, that’s just what people say.”

“I have thought about it.”

“And what did you decide?”

“I think they’re wrong.”

“I don’t think we can stay here forever though.”

“I don’t think so either,” she said as she held out her hand.

I grasped it and once again felt that familiar sensation. And, once more, we were in the hallway. It had certainly been a long day, even by this town’s standards. I even found myself yawning as I pictured the bed waiting for me.

“You should get some rest,” she told me, “we’ve got a long day tomorrow.”

“Sounds good to me,” I said as I entered my bedroom. 

“Goodnight.”

“Night.”