---
layout: post
title:  "Day 10, Part 3: That Hopeless Loop"
author: "chaosking121"
---

Being teleported took me entirely by surprise. What’s worse is that, by the time I landed, I was sure that it was by the action of someone other than Mal. I looked around to find myself in an surprisingly but large room. The meticulously painted drawing of a star on one of the walls gave no clue to what sort of room it was, and a quick survey of the room revealed no other occupants. But, one thing caught my eye nearly immediately. Tucked away in one corner of the room was a baby’s cot. And once I recognized that, the room’s purpose became clear to me. I was in a nursery.

I didn’t have long to bask in that revelation though, as the cot proved to be occupied when a baby’s cry seemed to ring out from it. I walked cautiously towards it, incredibly confused about the whole situation. I stood at the edge of the cot as a strong sense of apprehension welled up within me. My instincts screamed out not to look inside, but I couldn’t fight my own curious human nature.

And so, I peered into it to lay my eyes on the crying baby. And, I was greeted by those piercing green eyes. 

Once she noticed me, the baby’s cries stopped. Instead, she looked to me inquisitively, as if trying to remember my face. In that moment I felt as though I could burst. My mind processed the ramifications of what I had just seen long before my heart even entertained the possibility. There was no doubt, there could be no doubt despite the impossibility of it all. Those eyes were unmistakable. They were hers. They were Mal’s.

And suddenly, that cryptic excuse for a password hint suddenly made sense. It had told Mal to return to the day of her birth and her death. We had foolishly assumed that they were separate days, but as it all clicked together in my head, I came to realize it was always only ever one day. But, that wasn’t all. My mind itched, trying to remind me that there was something more.

I wracked my brain, trying to remember anything that could help me figure it out. And I did. I remembered that Mal had said during our walk through her life that the Emperor had decided to use her death as a celebration of not only the war’s end, but his daughter’s birth.

As if my discovery wasn’t horrifying enough in the first place, the big picture began to form in my mind. Mal was born as a princess, the daughter of the Emperor who hunted her and tried to end her life. Those attempts resulted in the end of the world, which would have also killed the baby Mal. 

And suddenly, my place in the grand scheme of things became clear. I turned around slow, unsurprised to see that there was now another person in the room. I was equally unsurprised to see a familiar face staring back at me. It was the one in the mirror, that had puzzled me so.

“Who are you?” I asked, already knowing the answer.

“I am the Shadow King. And I am you.”

Even though I had already figured out as much, hearing my own voice speak to me without being told so by my brain was a terribly discomforting sensation, but it paled in comparison to the entire situation unfolding around me. 

“And you’re the one save her from herself.”

“We both are?”

“And what if I choose not to walk that path? What if I choose a different path.”

“Nonsense. So as long as we have existed, we have always chosen this path.”

In my heart, I knew it to be true. I knew intuitively that my promise to Mal just a few hours earlier would always bring me to this room to have this conversation. But, even knowing that, I had to ask.

“Even if it dooms her to destroy the world? To bear that burden?”

“Yes, that is the fate that awaits us, who wish to save her.”

“You call that saving her?!”

The baby Mal started to cry behind me as I shouted. 

“Keep your voice down, you’ll upset her.”

My future self walked right past me to the cot behind me and comforted her to stop her crying. As he walked, I was very clearly able to see that he now held in his hand none other than Mal’s diary and dagger. I didn’t turn to face him, to face myself. 

“To answer your question, this is saving her. The life she lived may have been one filled with strife, but such is the will of The Hopeless Loop. And, even more than that, there will always be days when she smiles, and you understand just as well as I do the worth of her smile.”

There was no arguing with him. And, even if I could find the words to fight him down, what would be the point of doing it then? I would have a whole lifetime ahead of me to try to think of a different way, a better way.

“There’s no other way,” he remarked, eerily replying to my thoughts. After all, they were his thoughts too.

“What if I die?”

“You’ll be as strong as her one day. It takes a lot to kill us, as I’m sure you’ve seen.”

“But what if I died right now, in the explosion?”

“You’re just a projection, you’ll wake up on the grass outside that house and continue down the same path. But, these things are pretty much set, you won’t die here. After all, your Mal is waiting for you in the next room. I’ve told her the password. You can regain your memories now, just like we always have.”

“But-”

He spoke quickly, cutting me off.

“You might be safe, but she isn’t,” he said, gesturing to the baby Mal before him, “I don’t have forever to save her, and it’s quite a messy process, creating a fake town and all that.”

“Wait…”

“Yes, we create the town. And, no, there’s nothing I can do to help her. I think she would have told you something about creating a star at the height of her power. This, this is even harder. The beast you all fought is a blemish. No matter how hard I can try to create a perfect world, completely cut off from the rest of the Universe, there’s always a tiny blemish. The beast forms around it as the world rejects the small little pocket I create, and well, you know the rest.”

I didn’t have time to argue with him, and I would soon have an entire lifetime to figure out a new way to save Mal properly myself, even though I harbored a sinking feeling that I would always end up in his position, no matter how hard I tried.

“You said it was messy…does that mean?”

“Yes, creating an entire false town is hard. It will kill me, kill us. But, despite living my entire life knowing that this is how I go, I’ve never been afraid. Neither will you.”

“I’ll still try.”

“I know you will, because I did. But, I will leave you with one last hint. You can’t change the things she’s done, but you can minimize the damage. Evacuate planets before she hits them, keep her hidden while being chased by the Emperor. But the Loop? We can’t fight the Loop. Now, leave. I’m running out of time.”

I took my own words to heart as I walked towards the wall. I turned back, to see the back of my own head, knowing deep within me that this future always awaited me. And, as he had presumably done once himself a very long time ago, I walked through the wall and into another room entirely.

