---
layout: post
title:  "Day 7, Part 2: The Razor Edge of Her Blade"
author: "chaosking121"
---

And then, we continued to wait. A haunting silence surrounded us, keeping us constantly on our guards. With every howl of wind or pang of loose metal, we jumped, expecting the beast at any moment. 

But, the beast appeared not with a whimper, but with a massive crash. The first sign we got of its presence was a large truck being lifted into the air and flung directly at Mal. It was not nearly enough to harm her though, as she was easily able to get out of the way thanks to her ridiculous speed. In its recklessness, the beast had made itself known and had squandered any element of surprise it had.

Mal, not one to waste time, quickly sprinted to the beast’s location. This time, I was able to firmly look at it, no doubt a sign of my increasing aptitude at using the Vortex energy. I found that it was much smaller than it had been at the lake, and this time it took a humanoid shape. I was able to loosely make out the form of its arms and head. It mattered not what form it took though, because as soon as Mal was within striking range, it was forced to defend.

As I looked at her, switching effortlessly from stabs to swipes and even jabs, I regretted ever doubting that she was in fighting form. On the other hand, the beast seemed considerably slower than it was at the lake. It was forced to parry many of her blows, and she took great care not to leave any openings for a counterattack like she had before.

From my vantage point, it seemed as though the battle would be a short and decisive one. Soon, every single one of Mal’s strikes connected, with the beast repeatedly failing to dodge. Instead, it was forced to fall back, towards the edge of the quarry. Once she had cornered it, she would easily be able to do as the General in the report had done and rip out its Core, killing it. And, as I watched her continue to put enormous offensive pressure on the beast, I felt hope well up inside me where doubt and fear had once been rooted.

Soon, the beast found itself merely a few feet away from the edge of the quarry. I wanted to burst out of the cockpit I was confined in and cheer out loudly to her, since victory seemed so easily within reach. But, I was instead forced back down into that pit of fear as I looked on at the beast, with its raised arm outstretched towards Mal. As the pieces fit together in my head instantly, my desire to cheer quickly morphed into an overwhelming urge to warn her of what was to come. 

But, it all happened too quickly, and even though she was able to see it coming and attempt to dodge, the beast copied her attack at the lake and with a sudden surge of power, sent her flying into the air. Not satisfied with that devastating blow, it leapt with impossible strength into the air and attempted to land a punch on her mid-air. But, true to her professed skill as a fighter, she managed to dodge his follow up blow and land on her feet.

The tides had turned though, and the beast had clearly taken up the advantage. It moved from defensive parries to a barrage of powerful strikes. To make matters worse, the blunt force of the beast’s push seemed to have weakened Mal greatly. Her movements seem slurred and her reaction time was noticeably slowed. The battle, which just seemed to be in its final leg, had clearly only just began.

It seemed as though she had formed a plan though, as her movements started seeming more coordinated. Indeed, after a few blocks, she soon started to counterattack, with an occasional swipe or even a kick. She was also able to form some distance between her and the beast, giving her time to recuperate some of her strength before launching yet another offensive strike. 

But, even to my novice mind, I knew that this sort of battle was unsustainable and unlikely to end in our victory. Both she and I knew all too well that all the strikes in the world with that dagger of hers would do little to harm the beast, and with the looming threat of another use of that technique, she was also unable to close in and land the killing blow like she hoped to.

Surely, those facts were not lost on her either. Yet, she soon found herself staring down the outstretched arm of the beast once more. I almost closed my eyes, not wanting to see the damage that a second such strike would cause her. She was not as naive as I and the beast had assumed though, as she managed to move with a speed that surpassed anything she had yet displayed and move out of the way of the beast’s strike, which blasted away only the dust of the quarry floor. Her dodge had brought her within inches of the beast, within striking range.

However, the beast quickly blocked her from attacking its torso, where its Core was located. Not wanting to waste her opportunity for a close range strike, in a completely ironic manner, Mal was able to perform one of those pushes herself, sending the beast flying towards the quarry wall. This time around, she really seemed to put her full strength into it, as the ground surrounding her was crushed in the aftermath of her strike.

As she awaited for the beast to emerge from the dust that clouded its impact with the wall, she assumed a fighting stance, emanating a sense of determination and commitment to victory that would strike fear into almost any opponent. However, she suddenly broke her stance with a quick dodge to the left. It turned out to be the correct decision, as the beast came barraging out of the dust like a cannonball, narrowly missing her. Had she stayed put, she would have taken the full force of what seemed like a fatal blow.

Instead, the beast was unable to come to a stop, crashing into crane just meters from me, completely crushing it. It was the closest the beast had gotten to me since the start of the fight and at such proximity, I felt that primal fear well up inside me. But, I was stronger than I had been that day at the clothing store, and I managed to stave it off long enough to assess the situation. The beast seemed to be trying to escape the crane’s frame, which was wrapped around him due to the impact. Meanwhile, Mal seemed to be growing increasingly weary. 

Even worse, she was clutching her shoulder, a clear sign that her wound was impacting her ability to fight. I felt the fear inside of me give way to desperation, hoping deep down that there would be some way I could help. As I racked my brain for any possible idea, the beast emerged from the wreckage, clearly unharmed. 

Mal ran up to meet it and clashed with it once more. Despite her wounds, she was still largely able to keep up with the beast, but it was clear that she would be the one losing ground. Time was running out, and I continued to desperately look around for any way to give her the upper hand. In my frustration, I slammed my hands against the dashboard of the excavator, and it was only then that it suddenly dawned on me that I was in the control seat of a several ton metal death machine which had been left with the key in when its user presumably vanished a few days prior. 

I quickly surveyed the controls in front of me while trying to keep track of Mal and the beast’s movements. I would have to time it perfectly, I thought to myself as I found the necessary controls. I would set the machine moving towards the beast, hoping to at least inundate it with the momentum I could build up. It was my intention to buy Mal enough time to land a crushing blow against the creature.

But, no matter how I thought it through, it would fail because I would be seen coming. Deep down though, I knew the solution. Just as Mal had used a sigil to imbue that stone with momentum at the lake, I could use the sigils which kept me silent and hidden and apply them to the entire machine. I knew it was risky, after all, I had no idea what the energy requirement on such a feat would be like, and it would force me to escape only at the last possible minute. But, as I looked on at Mal’s struggle to keep up with the beast, I knew I had to do it, even if it meant disobeying her order for me not to try to be a hero.

I reached out, setting the necessary dials where they needed to be and gripping tightly onto the frame of the vehicle. I closed my eyes and focused, reaching deeper within me than I had ever dared to tread during my training at the lake. And, with a sudden surge of Vortex energy flowing out from within me, I knew I had succeeded. Of course, that the dull ache in my muscles had grown to an intense burn also signaled to me that my time was very limited. With a twist of my ankle, I set the entire machine to maximum speed. 

Mal, who was aware of my presence despite the sigils’ effects, was immediately alerted to my idea, just as I had hoped. While her initial reaction seemed to be horror, she quickly re-factored her plans to include my reckless decision and started to put distance between her and the beast, giving me the clearance I needed to ram right into it. Once I was sure that I was going to make contact at top speed, I let go of the machine, revealing it to the beast and leapt through the door, landing onto the quarry floor.

And, despite the extreme pain I felt from exerting myself like that, I got right back up and ran, and ran. It felt like an eternity, but I knew that was only my perception of it. I looked back, to the machine, which managed to catch the beast by surprise and trap it underneath. Mal, knowing how little of an effect that would actually have on the beast, acted quickly. She focused, and I felt the same surge of energy I had felt that day at the same, except orders of magnitude more intensely. 

She raised her hand, palm open, and then squeezed down tightly, forming a fist. Instantly, the excavator which trapped the beast exploded with much greater force than I had assumed was possible. I was still close enough to feel the immense shock wave that knocked me back several dozen feet, almost to the edge of the quarry. I clearly still had enough residual Vortex energy within me to heal my body’s injuries almost instantly, but the fatigue was starting to set in, and I found myself no longer able to sustain the sigils that had protected me until then.

I looked up, which caused me great pain in and of itself, to the massive fire that raged where the excavator had once been. The entire, massive thing had been incinerated by Mal’s power. I desperately hoped in that moment that it had been enough to weaken the beast enough for Mal to land the final blow and rip out its Core. But that desire wasn’t only for my sake, as I was now unshielded from the beast’s detection. It was also for Mal, who clutched her shoulder tightly, clearly near the limit of her strength.

But, my gaze soon returned to the fire, waiting for the beast to emerge. I was not so naive as to believe such a thing could kill it. Suddenly, to my horror, the beast emerged in a single, swift movement. It lunged right for Mal, who didn’t have the strength left in her to dodge. Instead, she tried to swipe at the beast, but it simply knocked her dagger from her weary hand. The force of its strike managed to knock the dagger all the way to within a feet or two of me where it lodged itself in the earth, quite possibly shattering the bones of her wrist in the process.

But, even the thought of that seemed to pale in comparison to the horror I felt as I was forced to look on as the beast gripped Mal by her throat and lifted her off the ground.