---
layout: post
title:  "Day 6, Part 1: The Hall of Memory"
author: "chaosking121"
---

This time, I awoke to her scent. It wasn’t something I ever really got close enough to notice. Yet, her scene reminded me of something foreign and far away, but that was also close at the same time.

“The ocean,” I muttered softly as I forced myself awake. 

“What was that?” she asked as she turned around to face me.

“Oh, um, nothing. I was just dreaming about the lake. Waking up there was so much nicer, even if I did have to sleep in a sleeping bag.”

True to her word, she had spent the night leaned against the couch on which I slept, yet, even so, I wasn’t exactly about to go around telling her that she smelled like the ocean.

Instead, I sat up and buried my hands in my face. My use of those sigils the day before had certainly taken their toll on me. Thinking that maybe standing up would get my blood flowing, I started to pace slowly around the room. I had all but forgotten that Mal was there until I noticed her staring at me.

“Is there something on my face?” I asked, confused.

“No, I’m just thoroughly amused by your innocence. I sometimes miss sleeping, there’s a certain sense of peace to it.”

“I imagine it’s been a while since you slept.”

“Yes,” she said with her head bowed before softly adding, “but it won’t be long again.”

I wasn’t sure how to react to that, so I just stood there, waiting for her to continue.

“Anyway, enough of that. We’re both awake and we’ve got a lot to do today. By tomorrow, that thing will be able to hold a form again, and that’s when we need to strike.”

“Speaking of striking, how’s your shoulder?”

“It seems to be healing, but very slowly. By tomorrow I should be able to more than keep up with it again.”

“Well, I don’t really have much else to go on but your word.”

“So, moving on,” she said, all too eager to change the topic. 

“You said something about The Order encountering something like that before?”

“Yeah, it was before my time, but I came across a report about it one day.”

“So, do you remember it?”

“Not quite, but I’ve got a few tricks up my sleeve. Follow me,” she instructed.

She stood up and walked down the hallway to the locked door next to the room that was supposed to be my bedroom. She placed her hand on the doorknob and hesitated before turning it. 

Instead, she started to speak, “Okay, so we’ve established that I’ve been around for quite some time.”

“Yeah, although I mean that’s pretty vague.”

“To be fair I probably couldn’t even give you more than a guess, but that’s not important. What matters is when you’ve around as long as I have, memories, they get jumbled and mixed up and some are even lost entirely.”

Her voice hung on those last few words, no doubt thinking of me and my lack of memories. 

“It’s fine, don’t worry about me. We’ll deal with my memories once we get rid of that monster.”

“I’m glad you understand. Anyway, to deal with the problems that arise from a human mind and incredibly long lifespans due to the regenerative effects of Vortex energy, The Order constructed this tool, used to manually access and even relive memories deep within our minds.”

“And that’s in this room?”

“It’s the room itself.”

“I don’t under..” I started to say as she turned the doorknob and opened the door. 

I followed her inside, finding myself faced with a vast expanse. 

“Welcome to the Hall of Memory,” she said, gesturing to the entire room with her hands.

I entered, my mouth agape with awe. As the door shut behind me and my eyes adjusted to the relative darkness of the room, I soon realized that we were standing up on a balcony, overlooking an unfathomable expanse of shelves, all neatly organized and packed with books. What stood before me was a library - stretching out further than I could see in every direction.

Mal didn’t wait for me to start asking questions before she started explaining. 

“Every book here is a part of my memory. They aren’t actual books though, they’re just a representation of my memories. It turns out that a library is a very effective means of storing massive amounts of information, and trust me, there’s a lot of information in here.”

“Where do we even start to look? Is there even an end to this room?”

“Well, strictly speaking the number of books in here is finite, it’s just really, really big.”

“Still doesn’t help us find the memory we’re looking for though?”

“It’s alright, The Order wasn’t that stupid, at least not until the end. Watch this.”

She raised her right hand over one of her eyes, and shut the other. She seemed to focus intently for a moment, and suddenly, the platform we were on started to fade away. I jumped, thinking that we were falling, but instead, the library itself moved around us. Hundreds of shelves zipped underneath us, as if we were navigating an impossibly complex maze at tremendous speed. Her concentration never wavered as we moved, until we suddenly came to a stop. 

“We’re here,” she said as the library itself rose up to meet us.

She turned to face me with a grin, clearly aware that I was in a state of total awe at the sheer magnitude of her so called ‘Hall of Memory’. If nothing else, it showed me just how much she had experienced.

“Alright, that’s enough gawking. You can pick your jaw off the floor now. I get it, I’m old and I’ve been around a while but I’ll tell you this, I still have the body I had when I was 19, how many people do you know that can say that?”

I took a minute to compose myself before asking, “So, that memory is here right.”

She was busy tracing her hands along a particular shelf, before stopping abruptly at a completely  unassuming book.

“It’s right here,” she said, as she pulled the book off the shelf and the entire library faded from around us.

At first, we were surrounded by a piercing black. But soon, we seemed to gradually fade into another, much smaller library, which was very brightly lit. There seemed to be an overabundance of the color white there, from the walls to the shelves to most of the bindings on the books that lined them - it was all white. Even the furniture, which was a basic desk with some tables around it, was white. 

And it was at one of those desks that Mal was seated, also dressed in white, intensely reading. I looked across to the Mal who had entered the room with me. There was no question about it, there were two of them. 

The Mal I knew started to speak, “We’re just visitors here. We can’t actually interact with her, just see what I would have seen then.”

“So, how do we get the information we need?”

“If I remember correctly, I should start reading aloud soon. It was a habit I had back then,” she said as she shrugged.

We had no choice but to wait it seemed. I spent the time trying to figure out what made the Mal in the memory seem so different from the Mal that I knew. They both had that distinctive green highlight and jet black hair, so it definitely wasn’t that. As I circled around to face her head on, I confirmed that she still had those piercing green eyes that had affected me so deeply when I had first met her. But, from that angle, I was able to notice that her skin looked so much more filled in and colored than the pale skin of the Mal I knew.

I wasn’t able to dwell on that discovery for long though, because, true to her future self’s prediction, she soon started to speak.

“A report on the Ten Day Battle on the Planet J’tmur in the year of The Order Eight Hundred and Seventy Three. General Gandr of The Order’s seventeenth division encountered a mysterious creature. They noted in their communication to The Order that the creature struck paralyzing fear in all who approached it, even at distances exceeding a kilometer. All but the most experienced soldiers reported being unable to move, and many quickly died before the situation could be assessed.

General Gandr then quickly mobilized an elite task force, consisting of his five best soldiers as well as himself. Further reports from the General indicate that even their strongest weaponry failed to harm the beast, which has taken up the form of a large lion. Furthermore, any wounds inflicted by the beast were unable to be healed by the use of Vortex energy.

After losing three of his elite task force, the General stripped his Vessel of its sigils, dooming them to remain there for the rest of their lives and prepared for a final strike. On the tenth day of the battle, the General used the sigils he obtained to repeatedly teleport until he was within close range of the creature. He was able to take it by surprise, and rip its Core out. The existence of a Core in the first place confirms the General’s claims that they were faced with a creature steeped in the Shadow.

The General was terribly wounded in his final encounter with the beast, losing his right arm entirely. With his army in shambles and his own health in a questionable state, the General retired and settled on J’tmur, although without a Vessel, he didn’t have much choice in the matter.”

She stopped, having reached the end of the report. I turned to look at the Mal I knew, who bore a sombre look on her face. The world around us began to fade once more, bringing us back to the Hall of Memory. Mal placed the book she had removed back into its slot and pushed it in. Her action caused another flutter of movement as the library sank beneath us once more and the room shifted, bringing us back to the balcony we had entered onto.

Mal opened the door, saying to me, “Looks like we found exactly what we were looking for,” while gesturing to me that I should leave.

I walked out the door and turned to face her and take one last look at the seemingly infinite room. Mal’s gaze seemed to linger as well, but she quickly turned around and shut the door behind her, but not without me noticing the pained expression on her face first.