---
layout: post
title:  "Day 11, Part 1: I Remember"
author: "chaosking121"
---

As much as I was sure that we both wanted to stay there and mull over the unbelievable things we had both learned, I knew that there was one last piece of the puzzle to be solved. My future self had told me that Mal now knew the password to unlocking my memories, but I think I would have been able to guess it anyway. 

She ended up getting up off the ground before I did and she even helped pull me up as well. Neither of us spoke. We had reached a point where words were almost just a waste of breath. We both knew very clearly what needed to be done as we walked up to the back door of the house and discovered to the surprise of us both that it was open. 

We didn’t even laugh at that. It seemed insignificant in the scope of things. We made our way through the dusty first floor and up the stairs into the hallway, were I quickly placed my hand on the doorknob and repeated the steps I had taken previously to activate the Hall of Memory. It went off without a hitch and we found ourselves greeted once again with those metal walls. I walked up, with Mal at my side, and knocked firmly on the metal wall.

Once again, the metal slid to the side and her deep green eyes greeted me.

“Password?” she asked again.

“The Hopeless Loop,” Mal and I said in unison.

“Accepted. Initiating memory restore process.”

I suddenly felt a surge through my mind, accompanied by a piercing and overwhelming pain. I keeled over onto the ground as images of my childhood and past came flooding back to me all at once. I remembered it all.

And, most of all, I remembered that day, on the roof, where I had first seen those green eyes. How could I ever have forgotten them?