---
layout: post
title:  "Day 3, Part 2: Green As Her Eyes"
author: "chaosking121"
---

As my eyes readjusted to my surroundings, I discovered that we had ended up in an alley, between two large buildings. 

“Act normal,” Mal instructed.

“I’m not sure what normal even is anymore.” I retorted.

She signed and started walking forward, out of the alley. I followed and we emerged onto a busy street, in the commercial part of town. All around us were shops and stores of all kinds. There was also an abundance of people, but much like before, it was impossible to make eye contact with any of them. Mal looked around quickly to get her bearings before looking to me and signaling the way we were going to be walking.

She set out with me following closely behind. I tried my hardest to stay within arms reach of her, not wanting to be separated. Although I thought it would be difficult to do so, considering all the people around us, I found that they moved out of our way with suspicious frequency. It was as if they were trying their hardest to avoid us. 

I caught up to Mal and whispered to her, “Can they see you?”

She replied, “Yeah, they seem to know we’re not like them. Do you see the way they let us through?”

“Yeah, I’m assuming that’s not good.”

“Definitely not good, but we don’t know what they are yet, so it could be still be just nothing.”

We continued walking, occasionally crossing the street or slowing down to look at a store. If I didn’t know better, I would assume that we were out shopping. The stores themselves seemed, you guessed it, perfectly average. Most of them had a clerk or two who, like everyone else, refused to make eye contact. Even the servers and cashiers at restaurants avoided it as well, which was very unusual for that line of work. The selection of restaurants in the town was also odd, with food from many different countries and places, none of which I had ever heard of. 

Yet, we continued walking. By then, I had become suspiciously aware that the sun was much higher in the sky than it should have been. I was tempted to take out my watch and check the ‘time’, but I was too focused on trying to keep up with Mal. It was just about then though, that she stopped and motioned for me do so as well. She turned back to look at me and silently nodded, giving me all the information I needed before she walked into a clothing store that I had completely missed.

If she hadn’t walked right into it, I’m not sure that I would have ever noticed it. The store itself was an unassuming shade of gray on the outside, blending in well with the concrete sidewalk. Not to mention that it was flanked on both sides by much larger and more attractive stores, a restaurant advertising “Authentic Fuliminian Cuisine” and an otherwise unassuming department store.

I didn’t want to dawdle for too long outside though, so I followed her into the store, taking her nod before entering to be a cue for us to act as normal shoppers. I entered the store to find her asking a middle-aged and balding clerk about a pair of jeans while herself not making eye contact with him. I took that to be the key to fitting in - trying not to make eye contact.

With that in mind, I began to browse the aisles of the store. Without my memory, I didn’t have much in the way of fashion sense, but I still had some things catch my eye - a shirt here, a pair of pants there and even a hat, which was unfortunately too small for me. As I browsed, I soon began to realize the common theme between all the things that I was interested in. Without even thinking about it, I was drawn subconsciously to things that held the same deep green color of her eyes. 

Before I could dwell too long on that discovery, Mal walked up to me and whispered, “Follow me.” She walked to the changing rooms at the back of the store, with a black pair of pants in hand. I followed, waiting for whatever cue she would send me. She told the clerk working with her that she would be trying on the pants as well and that he could go tend to other customers. With that, she entered the changing room and shut the door.

Confused as to my purpose, I was distracted by the clerk who asked if I needed help. I told him that I was simply waiting on her and he left to continue roaming the store. As soon as he was out of our little corner of the store, she opened the door, stuck an arm out and pulled me into the changing room. Surprised at her actions, I was thankful to find that she was, in fact, fully clothed. Before I was even able to ask what was going on, she spoke.

“You have thirty seconds, tell me what’s wrong here.”

“Is this some sort of test?” I stammered, trying to process what was going on.”

“Twenty seconds.” 

I looked around, panicked an confused, unsure of what I was even searching for in the cramped changing room that was clearly not meant for two people.

“Ten seconds.”

“No mirror!” I blurted out, realizing how odd it was for a changing room to not have a mirror in it. After all, what would be the point of one without a mirror?

“Good. What else? Five more seconds.”

My stress grew even further as she asked for another thing wrong with the room. I tried to calm myself and process what was going on. I looked at the entire room, as best as I could. It was a simple design, with a single light-bulb at the top, some plain wooden walls with a single hook on the back of the door. The floor itself was just as unassuming, being covered with simple patternless white tiles. As I looked down at the floor, it clicked in my head.

“No shadows!” I almost shouted, which she responded too by covering my mouth with her cold hands. Instead of speaking she simply nodded. 

I looked around, trying to figure out why there were no shadows in the room. There was, after all a single light point source at the top of the room. I even tried lifting my foot and peaking underneath, only to find that the bit of floor under my foot was indistinguishable from the rest of it.

I looked up inquisitively at her. She raised a finger to her lips, telling me to be silent, before removing her hand from over my mouth. She leaned in towards me, sending a chill down my spine as I felt the temperature of the air around me drop. 

“Yes, you did well. I’ll try to explain after we get out of here. First, check your watch.”

I quickly pulled out the watch from my pocket and popped it open. 

“Five O’clock.” I whispered to her. 

“Yes, we need to get home quickly. One problem though, they’re probably not going to let us leave as easily as we got in.”

“What do we do then?”

“I’m going to make us both invisible. Once I do, be as quiet as possible. We’ll open the door slowly then leave, try not to bump into anything or anyone.”

After those instructions, she snapped her fingers quietly and pulled away from me. She nodded and traced a finger across her lips, in a zipping motion. I got the message clearly. She slowly pushed the door to the changing room open, peeking outside to make sure it was clear. Once she was able to fit, she slipped out of the room and I followed in the same manner. 

We were fortunate that the store wasn’t very busy. In fact, I hadn’t seen another customer in the store besides Mal or worker other than one helping her earlier. I didn’t have time to dwell on the topic though, as we quickly made our way towards the exit. With the door to the outside world finally in sight, I felt relief wash over me as I felt we would be able to make it out quickly.

That feeling of relief was premature though, as I was suddenly overcome with a totally new sensation. I looked up, once again, towards the door. However, in front of it stood an apparition. It was impossible for me to focus on it, and no matter how hard I tried, my mind failed again and again to process what I was seeing. It was as though that area of space was veiled by a thick static that I could not so much so as look at.

But, much worse than that was my body’s reaction to this entity. Every single fiber of my existence - no, the very concept of my existence itself - seemed to reject what stood in front of me. The ‘fight or flight’ instinct that’s so intrinsic to human existence was itself overwhelmed. It was so intense that the concept of fighting or fleeing seemed to fade away entirely, replacing itself with another concept entirely, the one of impending death.

Barely a fraction of a second had passed since I first felt its presence, yet my perception of time had slowed so much that my idea of a ‘second’ barely carried any meaning any more. That was largely due to the completely engulfing fear I felt, another built-in defense mechanism of human beings when faced with  adversity. It was no help to me now though, as I could not even will my feet or hands to move.

Thankfully, I was accompanied by someone who had been around for quite some time. Mal opened her palm and a dagger appeared in it, with a shining blade as long as my hand. In a single fluid motion, she leaped forward, and slashed the entity across its length. Whatever she did clearly had a large effect on the creature, as I felt my senses return to me for a brief moment. 

It was all I needed though, as I lunged forward and through the open door, hitting the sidewalk outside with a painful thud. I crawled forward, away from the store, as it felt like even taking the time to stand would doom me. 

It was all over soon though, as Mal ran alongside me and gripped my outstretched wrist. And once again, the world around me was ripped away and replaced with a blinding light. If you had told me after the first time I had experienced this, that just two days later I would feel so much relief from the same experience, I would have called you mad.

Yet, the sensation was incredibly comforting now, as I now felt free of that monster’s grasp. For the first time, I open my eyes to face the blinding light. I was greeted instead, by the green of her eyes, and in that moment, I felt safe enough to give into the concussion I had received when I leapt out the door. 

By the time I felt the grass return beneath me, I wasn’t even conscious enough to question why there was grass beneath me and not the hardwood flooring of her house. Instead, all I could feel was a ringing sensation that seemed to pierce deep into my mind. 

Despite that, it was some time before I completely gave out. I was able to figure out that she had dragged me to a tree and rested my head on her lap while she leaned back onto it. It was dark out by then, and that’s when I couldn’t keep forcing myself to stay awake and I gave into the creeping darkness, calling me to sleep.

