---
layout: post
title:  "Day 6, Part 2: The Battle To Come"
author: "chaosking121"
---

There was a palpable silence in the air after we left the room. It was quickly dispelled though, as she looked up to meet my eyes. And in hers, I clearly saw her valiant effort to fight back the sadness she clearly felt after being faced with an image of her past self. And, who could blame her? She had more than assured me that she had lived quite a long life, who was I to even imagine the horrors she had seen and faced, or the depth of her regret?

“So, now we know,” she said to me softly.

“Now we know,” I replied, unsure of what to make of the report we had just listened to.

“You don’t need to look so worried, you know,” she said, staving off her own darkness and putting on a brave face, probably for my sake.

“So, now that we know what it is, what’s the plan?”

“Well, we know how to kill it now.”

“You mean, ripping out that core that the report mentioned?”

“Yes, and all we need to do is get me close enough to get hold of it, and poof, it’s over.”

“Just like that?”

“Just like that.”

“Aren’t you oversimplifying things though?”

“What makes you say that?”

“You’re still injured,” I said, staring at the wound on her shoulder.

“Oh this? It’s nothing. In my prime I could topple civilizations with one hand.”

“And what about me?”

“Splitting up is a liability. You’ll need to stay close to me. Thankfully for both of us, you’ve gotten pretty good at using those two sigils to stay hidden. You should be able to look on safely.”

“I wish there was something more I could do to help, just looking from the sidelines makes me feel pretty useless.”

“I don’t think you understand the magnitude of your progress, not that I’m surprised considering you don’t have much to compare yourself to. But, take my word for this, in just a few hours, you accomplished a year’s worth of training at The Order. That’s no small feat.”

“Still…”

“You heard the report, the enemy we’re faced against is not something to be taken lightly. Under different circumstances, you might have been able to join the fight but..but, given everything we just learned, I don’t think that’s wise.”

“I understand,” I told her, disappointedly.

I looked around as I did, surprised to see that we had both started pacing around the living room as we did. I found myself yet again staring out that window. 

“So, any more questions?”

“We’ve still got some time left. The sun is only just setting. Is there any chance you could teach me to use a new sigil?”

“Unfortunately, I only have a bottle or two of the lake’s water stocked up. And going for more isn’t an option either, it’s probably poisoned now after coming into contact with the beast.”

“I see.”

“But, there is one thing I can do.”

“Yes?” I asked, excitedly. 

“I can dramatically increase the efficiency of the two sigils you do know by placing them directly on your body.”

“That sounds like a good idea.”

She sat down on one of the couches and beckoned me to sit next to her. Once I did, she took one of my hands and lightly traced onto the back of it with her finger, sending shivers down my spine because of her cold they were. After a few seconds, she moved onto the next hand and before long, she was done. 

“All done,” she said, proudly.

I closed and opened my hands repeatedly, trying to feel some kind of difference, but failing.

“I don’t really feel anything.”

“Well, I only traced them lightly since I didn’t want them to be permanent. They’ll fade by end of the day tomorrow.”

“So we better win by then.”

“Yeah, we really do need to finish this before it gets back up to full strength.”

Grasping her hand suddenly, I said to her, “I have faith in you. You can do this.”

Surprised by my forwardness, she took a moment before replying, “Thank you, I’ll be sure not to disappoint you.”

“So, sleep now?”

“Yes, you need your rest.”

“Oh, I forgot you don’t..”

“It’s alright.”

“Where do I?..”

“I’m probably going to be running through fight scenarios tonight, so you can actually use that room of yours now.”

“That works for me,” I said, rising from the couch.

“See you in the morning,” she remarked, as I walked down the hall.

“Goodnight,” I replied, looking back to her.

Soon, I was lying in bed, drifting to sleep slowly. It seemed that the more time I spent with her, the more complex Mal seemed to be. While terrifying at times, and even though she certainly possessed the strength to back up most of her claims, I still felt as though she was hiding something. But, even that wasn’t too surprising to me, after all, it would be hard to live long enough to accumulate enough memories to fill a seemingly infinite Hall without forming some regrets along the way.

But, despite all of that, I still felt like I could trust her. All the things I had been through with her over the past few days, while they were probably going to be just another book to be shelved in that endless expanse for her, I truly felt in that moment like I would never be able to forget the time I had spent with her. And, even more than that, there was a part of that truly hoped I never would.

With my mind occupied with these thoughts, as well as worrying about the battle to come, it was no surprise that I didn’t notice myself fall asleep, perhaps for the last time. After all, who knew what the next day would hold?