---
layout: post
title:  "Day 8, Part 1: Bound"
author: "chaosking121"
---

I awoke once more to the sun’s light baring down on me. It was, suffice to say, a pleasant surprise. It took longer than I had hoped to open my eyes, and even longer yet to be able to sit up. There was an ache throughout my body that seemed to fight every movement I attempted, but I found myself thinking that it sure beat being dead.

Which I was sure I would be, considering how far I had pushed myself. Even then, I struggled to understand the magnitude of what I had accomplished. I tried to find the word to describe it, my mind still hazy from my miracle. A miracle. That was the word for something like that after all. Defeating the odds and making the impossible possible. 

I raised by hand up to press it against my heart. Dispelling all doubt, my heart beat ever onward, proof that I was alive. But, more than just that. My heart represented the concept of the existence that was me, and it was that concept, distilled to a single desire, that formed the sigil that let me save Mal.

Mal. Her name rang out in my mind. I harbored no doubt that she was alive. After all, I hadn’t found my own way to bed, and I certainly didn’t find my way back to life without her help. But, I couldn’t be sure what her condition was life. She may have been injured during the fight. After taking a moment to muster my strength and will myself out of bed, I decided that I would need to try and find her first of all. 

But, that didn’t turn out to be a difficult task, as she was right there in the room with me, leaned against a wall. At first, I thought she was dead after all, as her closed eyes and drooped head and limbs could mean little else for one who did not sleep. I tumbled out of bed, unable to even begin to balance myself as I moved. 

In my desperation, I dragged myself across the floor to her side. With worry exploding within me, I shook her vigorously, fearing that my wish had been for naught. It turned out though, that even she needed to sleep after a fight like that. As she stirred slowly from her first taste of sleep in what was probably a very long time, I started to cry, overwhelmed with relief that she had survived.

“You know I’m not dead right?” she asked sarcastically, now fully awake.

I wiped my eyes and replied, “Neither am I for some reason.”

She responded to that with a tap on my head.

“What did I tell you about trying to be a hero?”

“I’m sorry, I just..”

Her tap transitioned to a light rustling of my hair as she spoke, “It’s alright. I understand. I’m not upset, it’s hard to be upset after witnessing a miracle.”

“It really was one then?”

“As close as we can ever get.”

“But, did it work?”

“It worked. We won. The beast is dead.”

She fished out a jewel from her pocket, raising it up to sparkle in the sunlight.

“That’s…”

“Yeah. The beast’s Core.”

“So we really did win.”

“Yes, thanks to you, we did.”

I stayed silent, trying to process the fact that we had defeated the beast. And, if that wasn’t enough, I had played a critical role in that victory. Suddenly, Mal reached out and put her arms around me, taking me by surprise.

I didn’t object. I simply let it happen, overjoyed that we had both made it out of that battle alive.

“I told you I wouldn’t let that be goodbye,” she whispered into my ear.

Instinctively, I found my arms reach around her as well, pulling her into that embrace. It couldn’t last long though, as my muscles were still being very uncooperative. Mal caught on to the pain that I was experiencing, as she slowly let go of me.

“It hurts doesn’t it?” she asked.

“Everywhere,” I replied, struggling to even say that much.

“I remember what that’s like, I’ve got just the thing to help though.”

She helped me up and led me out into the living room, where I promptly collapsed onto a couch.

“Just a minute,” she said to me before disappearing from my view, leaving me to listen to the clanks and thuds as she clearly searched for something.

“There!” she exclaimed, before returning to me with a can of coke. I simply stared at her, unsure of how a can of soda would be able to help me.

Ignoring my lack of reaction, she popped it open, placed it into my hand and helped me get those first few gulps down. Even before I had finished swallowing, I felt myself reinvigorated once more, in a manner exactly like the lake water. Seeing that I was regaining my strength, she released her grip and left me to continue to down the drink for entire minutes, as though the can was bottomless. That turned out to be a good thing though, as I would have downed many normal cans before I started to feel my strength return to me.

“I’ve never seen anyone drink that much of it,” she said inquisitively as she watched me take my last sip. 

“What is this stuff anyway?” I asked in response.

“It’s made from the same sort of water that the lake contained. We distilled it to concentrate the Vortex energy and then made some soft drink with it.”

“A fitting peak for human ingenuity.”

She eased the can from my hand and then raised it to her lips. She didn’t drink as much as me, but the little that she did drink seemed to return the color to her face. When she finished, I even noticed that her eyes now seemed to be a few shades deeper than they had been over the last few days.

“It really does make a huge difference,” she said as she lowered the can. 

“So why didn’t we use that at the lake instead?”

“This was the last can of it in all creation.”

“Isn’t it endless though?”

She chuckled at my assumption, “No, it isn’t. It very nearly is though, but even that couldn’t keep up with you. I actually just finished it.”

She turned the can upside down, gesturing that it was now empty.

“Impressive,” I said, as I tried to stand up.

I was soon on my feet, although I was struggling to maintain my balance.

“Take it easy,” she exclaimed, “it might take a few minutes until you’re at a hundred percent again.”

Despite that, I managed to walk across the room and lean on wall while looking out the window. She was soon beside me, staring out the window at the town in the distance. Suddenly, a sharp brush against her hand. And, a chill down my spine.

“Did we really do it?” I asked.

“Yeah, we did.”

“What now, then?”

“There are some things I’ve been keeping from you. After what happened at the quarry, while you were still lingering between life and death, I promised that I would have to tell you.”

“You don’t have to tell me if it’ll hurt you to do so. I trust you.”

“And that’s exactly why I have to tell you, but..”

“But?”

“Not right away. I want to celebrate first. We’ve spent most of the last few days busy with something or the other. I felt like it would be a really good idea to just relax for a bit.”

“No arguments there.”

“Good, because I know just the place.”

“Where’s that?”

“It’s a surprise,” she said with a teasing smirk.

“Figures.”

“Don’t worry, it won’t be a surprise for long. Let’s just get changed and then we’ll head there.”

“Oh, right,” I said as I remembered how tattered and torn both of our clothes had become during the fight.

“There’s some new stuff near your bed, so you can go right ahead. I’ll get changed too.”

I followed her down into the hall, and lingered just long enough to see her disappear into the room that she called her own. Once she had, I went into my own room and examined the clothes she had left out for me. The plain black pants she had left were unassuming, as plain black pants tend to be. But, her choice in shirt was much more vibrant and striking. It was obviously a deliberate choice on her part though, and I instinctively knew why.

But I didn’t mind in the slightest. After all, the shirt suited me just fine, because it was the same color as her eyes.