---
layout: post
title:  "Day 10, Part 5: The Weight of One's Smile"
author: "chaosking121"
---

I entered the room to find Mal, the Mal I knew, sitting on the floor. The look on her face left me with no doubt that my future self had spoken to her too.

“He got to you too then? I just want to apologize in advance for-”

She cut me off.

“Listen, you don’t have to listen to what he tells you. You can still change your future.”

“We spoke about this earlier this morning back at the house. I told you that there will come a day when I understand the full gravity of the promise that I made to you, and on that day, I will look back and know I made the right choice. I saw the look on the face of my future self. It isn’t the one of someone who’s being forced into things. No matter what happens along the way, it will always be my choice to save you, even if it means my demise. I’d love to do a better job at it, but that’ll have to come later.”

“I can’t understand, that someone could see the end that awaits them and not feel fear.”

“I’m going to have to use this line a few thousand years too early, but I think that my future self put it best when I said to myself that the days on which you smile make it all worth it.”

And with that, she ran towards me and pulled me into her arms.

“I don’t deserve you,” she said, with her face buried into my shirt.

“No, I think we deserve exactly and precisely each other. It’s probably how we got ourselves into this mess in the first place.”

And, we stayed like that for quite some time. We had both just been shown visions of the start and end of our respective journeys. And it did form, in the end, a perfect loop. Our stories began with the other’s end, and ended with the start of the other’s. A loop that seemed so vast that it stretched through the eons and colored every inch of creation. There was no hope fighting a loop like that. But, I would try, as I have always tried and would always try.

And so, as time ran out on us and the ripples the explosion tore through the ship we had briefly visited, and as we both awoke once more on that grassy earth beneath a sky devoid of stars, I truly understood the meaning of The Hopeless Loop.