---
layout: post
title:  "Day 2, Part 2: Dusty Decisions"
author: "chaosking121"
---

I can’t say that I made the best of the time I had to explore the building. It was, for the most part, the most ordinary thing that I had encountered so far in this town. The room where I had woken up as well as the one where I had spoken to Mal were both on the second floor. Besides those two rooms, there was a small bathroom that had been used fairly recently, evident by the clothes strewn all over the floor. 

Otherwise, there was Mal’s room at the end of the hall, right at the top of the staircase. The last room on this floor was behind a locked door, right next to my own. Not wanting to cause her to follow through on any of her threats, I stayed away from those two rooms as best as possible. 

I soon found myself in the bathroom again, staring at a dusty mirror hung unevenly above the sink. I looked at my own face and tried to stymie the increasing discomfort within me as I failed to even recognize myself. It was certainly a strange feeling, looking into a mirror and not being able to have that instinctual ‘hey, that’s me’ kick in. 

True to Mal’s word, there was a green letter A drawn on my head. It had been drawn in permanent marker, as it took several minutes of harsh washing to remove it. Questions swirled in my mind about the reason behind drawing that on my forehead. I tried my best not to entertain the possibilities that popped up, as very few were what I could call pleasant. Instead, after washing my face thoroughly, I decided to head downstairs. 

As I approached the door to her room, I quickly turned towards the stairs. I was not going to be one to test the authenticity of her threat. The staircase, as well as the entire first floor, was unremarkable. Contrary to the signs of life I had seen on the second floor, this one seemed to be totally devoid of anything that would indicate that someone lives here. 

I made my way across the dust caked floor towards a kitchen, which was completely empty. There was not a dish or bit of food in sight. Even the fridge had long since been powered off. A quick turn of the faucet and the resulting sputter revealed that even it had not been used in what seemed like years. As I looked around, I became aware of a surprising fact as my hand run over my stomach. It had been almost an entire ‘day’ since I had eaten, at least I thought so. The odd way that time had passed the day before left my unsure of many things.

Despite that uncertainty though, it had at least been one entire night since I had last eaten. And yet, I felt neither hungry nor thirsty. Rather, I felt content as though I had just eaten a filling meal and drank a glass of cold water. As I tried to wrap my head around that feeling, I quickly reminded myself that it was just another odd occurrence in a string of many, many weird occurrences. 

Trying to further delay thinking about my discussion with Mal, I quickly left the kitchen and found myself exploring further. Most of the rooms on this floor were empty, with the exception of a dining room which still had a large table inside of it. The chairs though, were all gone. As I walked down another corridor, I noticed that the walls were covered in crayon drawings, at around the height of my waist.

Clear the work of a small child, I stooped to look at some of these drawings. Most of them seemed abstract and were hard for me to make any sense of, but one in particular stood out from amongst the bunch. It was a drawing of a family, with a mother, father, 2 daughters and a son. All of the people in this drawing had brown hair, which was unexpected as Mal’s hair was jet black.

Having been reminded of her, I made up my mind to head back upstairs and try to reason out what my plan going forward would be. I made my way slowly back up the stairs and down the hallway to the living room, where I collapsed onto one of the couches and buried my hands in my faces.

I internally mulled over what we had spoken about that morning. It was certainly a lot to take in. For some reason, her claim that true coincidences were rare seemed to be something I agreed with deep down. I couldn’t tell you why I felt that way, on account of having lost my memories, but I definitely felt that if I stayed with her, the reasoning behind all of this would become clear.

Which led me to what seemed to be her goal. There was absolutely no denying that there was something very wrong with this town. It seemed to persist through every aspect of this place. The buildings and people both gave off a sense of thinly-veiled falseness that was enough to invoke a feeling of deep discomfort in me. Not to mention that there was still the issue of the way time passes here. As the thought occurred to me, I got up and pulled a curtain, only to find that, as I suspected, it was already in the late afternoon, even though I had been awake for no more than an hour.

Yet, that still wasn’t even the strangest thing about all of this. That honor undoubtedly goes to Mal. Everything about her seemed to turn up my reactions to eleven. Being around her seemed to keep me on my guard, while simultaneously suppressing the near constant worry I felt whenever she was away. It seemed almost paradoxical, but while the idea of staying around her had my internal danger meter going off the scales, I instinctively felt as though it was my best bet. 

As I pressed my palm to the glass and felt the evening sun’s light, I realized that I needed to make my decision quickly, because Mal would probably return soon. I mulled over the options in my head. While it was technically possible for me go off on my own and try to figure this whole mess out, I couldn’t even begin to figure out where I would start, let alone where I would live or survive. 

As those thoughts floated through my mind, I felt a sense of premonition and spun around. At first I was greeted by an empty room. But, once again seemingly in between blinks of my eye, Mal appeared. As she did, and I looked into those deep, green eyes - which no doubt held secrets beyond what I could comprehend - I knew in my heart that my decision was made.

“Were you waiting for me?” she said coyly as she dusted off her shoulders.

“Nope, I just felt a sudden sensation that you’d show up.”

“Oh really? You continue to ease my doubts about whether or not you’re actually a time traveler.”

“You had doubts?”

“Well, not dying last night more or less confirmed it. But, in a place like this, you can never be quite sure, can you?”

“Doesn’t that mean I should have doubts about all the stuff you’ve told me?”

“If you didn’t, you would never last with me.”

“I do, but…”

“But?”

“But, I’ve decided to stick around. Working together with you definitely seems to be the best shot I have at figuring any of this out. And hopefully if I do, I’ll be able to remember.”

“It’s been a while since I’ve had company. It’s definitely a nice change of pace,” walking towards me as she spoke. 

As she did, I turned so that we both faced the window. This time around, it was already night outside. The lights of the Town’s center seemed far off in the distance, but it was unmistakable considering there wasn’t much else out there. 

“Why does time pass so quickly here?”

“Sometimes it’s quick, sometimes it’s slow. There’s very little order or sense to it.”

“I’ve noticed, but why does it happen like that? You seem to have more than a few years of experience as a time traveler under your belt, I figure you might have some idea why it’s happening.”

“I’ve got a few theories.”

“Not ready to share them?”

“Why don’t we find out for ourselves soon? How’s tomorrow sound?”

“Well it’s certainly better than roaming an empty house. Seriously, how long has it been since this place was cleaned? Even worse, the most interesting thing that I found was some kid’s drawing of a family on the walls.”

As slight as it was, I was sure that she reacted to my comment about the drawing of a family. But, as she was seemingly prone to doing, she quickly took control of the conversation again by throwing me a plastic bag.

“Clothes. They’re nothing fancy but they’ve been treated to make sure they don’t break down while jumping like we did last night. A few more of those and your current stuff would have been rags. They should fit fairly well, I’m good at this sort of thing.”

“Thanks. I hadn’t even thought of that.”

“If you don’t mind the mess, you can go take a shower then you should probably get some sleep. Tomorrow we’re gonna try and figure out what we can about this town.”

“It sounds like a plan.”

I made my way down the hall to the bathroom as she walked back to one of the couches and slumped down. “Goodnight,” I said, without looking back. 

“Night, A.” she said, as warmly as I think she could. 

The rest of my night passed quickly, with a brief shower which was still nearly scalding hot despite being turned all the way to the cold side. Mal had given me two suits of clothes, so I picked the one that felt more comfortable and settled into bed. As I drifted off, her last words to me resounded in my mind. I was unable to figure out why though, as I fell asleep straight away. I guess I had not fully recovered from that ‘jump’ the night before. Whatever the reason, I welcomed sleep with open arms, one of my few comforts amongst all the chaos of this place.