---
layout: post
title:  "Day 4, Part 1: Come, Calm Water"
author: "chaosking121"
---

I started to wake up, slowly at first but then all of a sudden as I realized that Mal wasn’t near me. I leapt from the ground that I was sleeping on, still severely shaken up due to my encounter with that creature yesterday at the shop. I looked around, trying to get my bearings while noting to myself that this ‘waking up in a strange place with no idea where you are’ thing I had going on was getting quite tiring. 

At the very least, I was thankful that the ringing in my head had stopped. I ran my hands over my head, looking for any signs of injury or damage. After a thorough search that involved attempted acrobatics to ensure I was able to keep my balance and ended with me banging my head on the tree trunk to see if I really was fine, I concluded that I had somehow made a full recovery overnight. As strange as it would have been under normal circumstances, I wasn’t even bothered by it in the slightest given everything that had happened.

Instead, I tried to focus on exploring my surroundings. I seemed to have woken up in a small clearing, a few meters across, with a large tree in the center. As hard as I tried, I was unable to even identify the kind of tree it was. Furthermore, I quickly determined that I was in a forest, clearly evident by the abundance of similar trees all around me. I debated walking around and trying to find any sort of way to figure out exactly where I was, but I quickly decided against it, doubting that Mal would abandon me suddenly. 

However, a different scenario quickly rooted itself in my mind. What if something had happened to her while I was asleep? I knew that we would have been instantly teleported there once she touched me, but what if that creature could track us down somehow? What if it had come to finish the job during the night and Mal had been forced to abandon me?

Tried as I did to rid myself of those thoughts, I couldn’t. And as I sat at the tree I had awoken by, shaded by its canopy, my fear grew by the minute. I found myself staring at the watch, which reported a time of just after eight o’clock.

In my worry, I leaned my head back onto the tree’s trunk and started to plan for the contingency that I would now be on my own. First, I set a deadline of noon to wait on Mal’s return. After which, I would have no choice but to go out on my own and try to get back to the town before the sun set again. But that plan prompted the question, would going back to the town even be a good idea?

After all, I assume Mal had the ability to land us anywhere in town, and she chose this forest, which must have had some reasoning behind it. Perhaps she felt that even going back to the house, which itself was a fair distance from the town, was unsafe. As I mulled over the options in my head, I instinctively sensed something approaching from the foliage to my right.

I stood up and tried to assume the best fighting stance that I could. I slowed my breathing and called out, “If there’s someone there, come out slowly. I’m armed and not afraid to defend myself.”

My threat was responded to by a hearty laugh, one which I recognized instantly. Mal soon stepped out of the forest, with a massive grin on her face.

“What exactly are you armed with?” she asked, still laughing.

“I’m armed with quick wits and an unusually heavy pocket watch. Men have been killed with less.”

I couldn’t help breaking out into laugh as well as I spoke, and I must admit that it felt quite good to laugh, given all that had transpired. It was even more of a relief to know that Mal was safe and I was around her again. After seeing her brilliant strike last night against the creature, I had grown even more sure of my decision to stay with her - she was definitely no stranger to things like this.

However, as the memory of that creature floated around my mind, I suddenly felt a knot in my stomach. The laughing stopped as well. Mal took notice of this and approached me, stopping as she stood in front of me. It was the first time that I noticed that we were the same height. She locked eyes with me again and reached out to touch my forehead where I had first hit the sidewalk yesterday.

“How’s your head?” she asked.

“It’s fine. I’m not sure how I recovered overnight, but at this point it’s not even in my top ten list of things I don’t understand.”

“Yeah, I’m not surprised. Hopefully today we’ll make some space on the list though.”

“Really?”

“Yes. And before you ask, we’re in the forest in the center of the town. It’s hard to tell from the ground, but the town is actually built along a circular road that encircles this patch of forest. My house is on the outskirts of the forest, that’s why it seems so far from town.”

“I’m guessing there’s something in this forest you want to show me.”

“Yup. There’s something in this forest that’s a huge help in explaining time travel.”

“Oh, so am I finally going to learn how to travel through time?”

“Not quite, but I am going to explain how it works and all the stuff that goes along with it.”

“Sounds like a plan.”

“Let’s get going then. Follow me, I’ll try to slow down a bit since you’re not as familiar with this forest as I am.”

And with that, she started walking into the forest. As I followed her, I kept trying to find a tree or plant I recognized, but I continually turned up blank. I also slowly began to realize that there was still a lack of animals of any kind. On particularly slow bits of our walk, I even tried to look down at the ground, trying to find even a sign of an insect’s presence.

On one such attempt, Mal had caught on that I was doing something strange and asked, “What are you looking for?”

“To be honest, I’m looking for an insect, or any sign of an insect. Another thing that’s been bothering me since we got here is that I haven’t seen any animals.”

“There aren’t any here.”

“Doesn’t that bother you?”

“To use your expression, it doesn’t even make the list of the top ten things that bother me about this town.”

“I’m guessing number one is…”

“Yeah.”

“What..what was that?”

“I don’t know,” she said reluctantly.

“Now, I haven’t known you very long, but the fact that you don’t know worries me.”

“It worries me too.”

“That’s why you brought us here, right? You didn’t want to lead it back to the house.”

“That’s part of the reason why, yes.”

“What’s the rest?”

“I don’t think it can come here, in this forest.”

“Is the reason for that related to what you’re going to show me?”

“Exactly that. You’re surprisingly good at this. Speaking of which, yesterday in the changing room.”

“Yeah, what was that about?”

“I wanted to see how you would react under pressure?”

“Why would you want to know that all of a sudden?”

“I knew something was wrong, I had a feeling that our escape attempt wouldn’t be entirely smooth. I needed to know how much I needed to have an idea of how you would handle whatever came our way… but I never expected something like that.”

“I couldn’t even look at it.”

“Yes, it was hard for me. Whatever it was, it was something that shouldn’t ever have been. The very concepts of our existence have an intrinsic desire to reject things like that.”

“That’s what it felt like - like I couldn’t come to terms with the fact that it was there, in front of me.”

She paused before responding, and turned to look at me.

“Listen to me, A. You did well, you did really well. I was only able to get one slash in. If I had turned back to get you, I’m not sure either of us would have made it out alive. I’m sorry, I was careless. But, we did make it out alive, because you were able to get out of there. I had my doubts initially about you, but you’ve exceeded all my expectations. I’m glad that I decided to let you stay.”

The sincerity of her voice struck me far harder than her words. It took me a few moments to find the words to reply, but I eventually did.

“I should be the one thanking you. If I hadn’t met you at the shelter on that day, I’d still be lost and confused without even the slightest clue about anything. In my books, a run-in or three with a monster is worth having some idea what’s going on, even if I don’t quite understand everything.”

She reacted with a warm smile before replying, “Well, about that, we’re here. Come on.”

She parted some branches with her hand and revealed another clearing to me. I walked through, with her following close behind me. This one was much larger than the one I had awoken in, and inside it was what seemed to be a small lake. While I could see the other side, it would be quite a challenge for me to swim all the way across. Somehow though, I doubted that it would be difficult for Mal.

I walked towards the shore, taking care to take in the scenery. The glistening water was deep blue and seemed incredibly inviting. Bounded on all sides by dense foliage, the clearing itself was a sight to behold, with the sun shining bright in the sky. Yet, the temperature there felt just right, lacking that characteristic heat of the sun’s rays. Even the air in the clearing was something special. I found it particularly refreshing after dealing with the air in the town the day before. 

I turned around, to see Mal looking at me, curiously observing my reaction to this seemingly magical place.

“How is this possible?” I shouted at her, suddenly feeling free of the horrors and oddities I had experienced over the last few days.

“It’s nice isn’t it?”

“How can something like this even exist in the middle of the city?”

“It’s hidden, like a tiny bit of space folded onto itself. If you look at a map of the town or even just look at it from high up, you never see this place, just forest. I actually found it as a little girl. I played in the forest a lot when I was younger, and one day I got so deep into the forest that I ended up here.”

“That must have been amazing.”

“It was quite the experience at first, I was amazed, definitely. But, I wondered why no one ever told me about the lake. So I ran home and told everyone about my discovery.”

“What did they say when you showed it to them?”

“I couldn’t. Any attempts to bring someone here ended in failure. I could only ever come here alone, otherwise I just kept walking through the forest, unable to find the entrance.”

“Until me.”

“Until you.”

“So, I’m going to guess that there’s something to do with time travel here.”

“Yeah, but first, the water!”

She took off into a carefree sprint and jumped right into the water, clothes and all. Not wanting to be outdone, I followed right behind her. As my body hit the water, I felt a sense of ease permeate throughout my body. Much like the temperature outside, the water itself was just cool enough to be pleasant. As I dipped my head beneath the water, it was as though my worries themselves were being washed away with the slow ebb and flow of the water.

It was hard for me to process that I was actually there to finally have my questions answered about this time travel thing that I’d gotten myself caught up in. In that moment, between the deep inviting blue of the water and the comforting green of her eyes, I felt as though all of the chaos and confusion I had been through since arriving here had been worth it.

It was certainly an interesting thought. That the fact that we are all faced with great peril could be made worthwhile for moments like that. And as I smiled along with her as we enjoyed the cool water, I thought maybe that there was hope hidden in the nightmares that laid ahead of me. 