---
layout: post
title:  "Day 1, Part 1: The Dancing Girl"
author: "chaosking121"
---

I awake with my face plastered to scorching asphalt with the noon sun blaring down on me. I try to orient myself, but I can’t recognize a thing around me. Everything, from the street, to the houses and even the trees, seems completely foreign to me. I rack my brain, trying to figure out where I am. Had I fallen and hit my head? I was completely and totally lost. I looked around, trying to find some clue. The houses along the street were all so ordinary. There was not a telling sign as to our location. There were so country flags hanging or flying high. They were painted with the most muted and nondescript colors, with their outward designs being just slight variations on all the others. Even the trees seemed lifeless, as if they were copied and pasted from some sort of picture book. 

I was distracted from my sightseeing by the thump of my heartbeat, which was speeding up the longer I spent without knowing where I was. It was only then I realized that this place was accompanied by an almost deafening silence. There were no dogs barking at a rouge squirrel, no birds whistling as they nested in the trees. Even the houses were quiet, lacking even a bit of noise from within. As this set in, my growing sense of unease exploded into complete panic. I was still no closer to remembering how I got here, or even where here was.

So I tried to dig even deeper and when I did, I realized just how little I remembered. I tried to form my name in my throat, as if speaking it out loud would make everything right again. But I could not even begin to find the sounds, because I had somehow forgotten even that. I tried even harder to remember - to remember where I came from, how I got here, who I was. Any of those answered would have brought me so much relief, but they never came. 

I eventually did manage to get some sound out, a shrieking scream that embodied the horror and confusion I felt in that moment. It, as screams tended to do, attracted a lot of attention to me. It wasn’t long before I was approached by some of the residents of the houses along the street I had awoken on. They were barely able to understand me between my frantic, hyperventilated speech and my incoherent ramblings about my inability to remember anything. I can’t say I blame them, I couldn’t have been making much sense in that state. 

After dealing with my breakdown for a few minutes, many of them had backed off to the safety of their own homes. The few that remained phoned the police, who they decided would be better equipped to deal with the situation. By then, I had calmed down and was starting to hope that this was all just part of some really vivid dream. A handful of these people stayed with me during the wait for the police’s arrival. Their features were similar to the houses that they lived in. Their clothing, their mannerisms and even the way they spoke - it all seemed so fake, as though these people were trying to be as generic as possible. I could find no clues as to where I was.

But I did manage to find something - one of them had brought along newspaper. Along the top, printed boldly, was the date - Tuesday, November 11th, 1969. You’d think that knowing the date would ease me somewhat, but instead, this date just felt wrong to me. I failed to even remember when I was born, but the notion that I had found myself in 1969 struck me with the same sense of impossibility that you feel when you’re being blatantly lied to. I was temped to just ask, “Hey, where the hell am I?” but I decided that such an odd question would make me seem even stranger in their eyes. I decided to just wait until the police arrived, who may be more understanding of what amounted to near total amnesia.

I tried to slow my breathing and calm my panicked and racing heart. I wanted to make the best impression possible on the officers when they arrived, in the hopes of being believed and obtaining some help. As the sirens began to sound in the distance, I knew it wouldn’t be long again until they arrived. I had to carefully plan what I would tell them and ask them to try and best explain my situation to them. 

As they rolled up and came to a stop, the residents all returned to their homes, leaving without so much as a word or glance at me. The officers themselves seemed very disinterested. They asked for my name and address while staring at a sheet of paper on a clipboard. When I tried to explain that I couldn’t remember either, they just scribbled some information and went on to the next question. Eye contact with them was seemingly nonexistent and they showed almost no reaction to my questions, not even turning towards me, let alone by answering them. 

This went on for some time, until they stored the clipboard in the car and checked me for weapons. Even at this close range, they didn’t even flinch at some of the questions I was asking - about where I was, if they could get me some assistance regarding my lack of memory. That sort of thing. By the time they had decided that I didn’t have any weapons on me, I had given up on asking any more questions. They returned to their car for what looked like some deliberation between them and then they returned to me. They told me then that they would take me to a nearby homeless shelter for the night and then take me to see the doctor in the morning. 

I was about to protest and ask why I couldn’t be seen now. After all, it had only been about half hour since I had woken up. That’s when I noticed. My blood crawled as I turned around to see the sun setting in the distance. I tried to fight it, my racing heart. I reminded myself that I had to be calm in the presence of the officers as I might be seen as a danger to myself and others if I started to panic again. It was not easy, especially after such an unnerving realization, but I managed to calm my nerves enough to nod and follow them to their car.

I don’t know if it was my distracted train of though, a result of the seemingly impossible passage of time, or if it was yet another quirk of this strange town, but the drive seemed to pass incredibly quickly. In just a few minutes, it seemed we had traveled all the way out of the suburbs and into the centre of town. They dropped me off at the curb near the shelter, but one of the two accompanied me inside the building and spoke to someone working there, presumably explaining my situation. 

He turned to look at me - still avoiding eye contact - and gestured for me to go on inside. At this time I had little choice but to continue inside and await their return in the morning, when I would hopefully be carried to see a doctor and get some help. However, as I noticed that all of the faces on the people here bore the same nonchalant expression of the police and residents, I started to lose hope that anyone in this town would be able to help me. That fact, coupled with the strange passage of time, led me to reconsider if I was dreaming. I tried every trick in the book, from pinching myself to counting the fingers on my hand - yet I could not seem to find any solid proof that I was dreaming, let alone wake me from whatever nightmare I had found myself in.

In my frustration, I settled myself in a corner and tried to make myself as comfortable as possible while I waited for morning. However, I understandably found sleeping difficult under such conditions. Instead, I found my gaze wandering not just to the bland room or generic people, but to the situation as a whole. From my vantage point in the corner, I could see most of the room. What intrigued me most was the interactions between everyone. I felt as though I was watching a bad play by unenthusiastic performers who were being paid just enough to show up. 

I began to piece together a worrying picture - that everything and everyone here exist as just enough to create the illusion of being real. It was as if an artist had run out of time to fill in the background of a piece of art, and tried his best to throw something together in a hurry by putting the least amount of effort necessary into making it look believable. I wasn’t sure what to make of this suspicion, much less figure out what it meant about me, who was lost and without memory. As my head drooped was buried in my hands, I began to feel a sense of overwhelming despair taking over me. I felt as though it would be enough to consume me, and I was just about to break down again when I felt the sudden urge to look up.

That’s when I saw her.

It was obvious, from that first glance that she was other. She lacked the blandness of everyone else I had seen that day, as evidenced most by her striking jet black hair with one single vivid green highlight. The striking contrast in her hair alone set her apart from all the others, it was if she were the artwork that the painter had spent the night working on. But the oddities didn’t stop there. As I watched her cross the room, she seemed to move with such grace it was as though she was dancing. 

She swerved and twirled at all the right times to avoid bumping into anyone with such accuracy that it seemed painstakingly choreographed. She continued unfazed until she happened to walk past a pair of young children, accompanied by their mother. They sat against a wall with a pained expression on their face. A quick glance around the room revealed that it seemed to be time for dinner to be handed out here, and that while everyone around her had gotten their meals, she and her children sat hungry. This appeared to greatly upset the girl, who walked intently towards the kitchen door, entered and then quickly emerged with some plates of food. 

She, as gracefully as ever, made her way to the hungry family and placed the food at their feet and then darted to the back of the building and out a door. Everyone, including myself, was shocked at what had just happened. Yet, it seemed to be for different reasons as the kitchen staff, instead of running after her, stood stuck with terror at what has just happened. The woman and her family meanwhile, praised god for the miracle that he had granted them.

Needless to say, I was terribly confused. After all, I had just seen a girl brazenly enter the kitchen, grab some dinner and carry it over to a family. There was nothing miraculous about it. But, I had a nagging sensation inside of me that everyone else had seen something totally different. It was the way she walked that prompted this thought. The way she so deliberately avoided bumping into anyone. It’s the sort of thing you’d expect from someone who couldn’t be seen and wished to conceal their existence.

I began to ridicule myself internally for what I was suggesting. There was no way that girl was invisible to everyone but me. Despite that, there was a bit of doubt in me. After all it, it had been an incredibly strange day. Would an invisible girl even be the strangest part of the day? I decided that the only way to put my mind at ease about this would be to go out into the back and check for myself. 

I rose from my surprisingly comfortable spot in the corner and tried to follow the same path that she had. I found myself at a pair of large French doors which were slightly ajar. I cautiously pushed one side open and found that it led to what was once a large garden. Now, it had been reclaimed by nature after having sat untended for what had to have been many years. Even so, there was a stone path to walk along, and I decided that it was probably my best shot at finding her.

The path led me down towards the back of the garden, where a large water fountain had once stood. Now, it was a broken and only barely recognizable ruin. On the edge of a short circular wall that would have held the fountain’s water sat the girl from before. Her head hung low and in her current state, she gave off an aura of despair - something that resonated very strongly with me at that time. I began to wonder if she was also lost, if she had mysteriously found herself here and without her memory just as I had. 

I approached her nervously, as I was unsure of anything at this point. As I stepped out of an overgrown plant that had concealed me up until that point, she looked up, startled. I was taken aback by her pale skin, contrasted strongly by her black attire. But, even stranger yet were her piercing green eyes, which seemed to peer deep into my soul and see right through me. 

And so, for the first time that day, I had made eye contact with someone here. The sensation of locking eyes with her affected me greatly in a way that I could not understand. There was no doubt about it though, she was something totally different to everyone else I had met today. A strange mix of terror and exhilaration overtook me as I muttered hello. She once again seemed surprised but quickly composed herself again. With a slight tilt of her head, she smirked and with a voice that seemed both overwhelming and whisper quiet at the same time, she responded, “Hey.”