---
layout: post
title:  "Day 11, Part 3: Every Hello Ends With A Goodbye"
author: "chaosking121"
---

She held me tightly. And, as she did, I felt the knot tie itself in my stomach as knew it would be for the last time. She was even colder now than she had ever been before, there was no doubt that her time was near. But, we kept on holding without a care in the world as it continued on around us.

But, like all things, it had to come to an end. 

“Mal, thank you.”

“You don’t need to thank me. You would do the same for me. You have, and you will.”

“You were right.”

“About what?” she asked with a confused look.

“You said that you felt people were wrong when they said everything ends.”

She laughed, understanding what I had meant.

“This is the way things have always been, I guess.”

“The Hopeless Loop.” 

“Yeah, you ever wonder how long it’s been going on? How long it will continue?”

“I don’t think our brains can handle the answer to either of those.”

“Probably for the best.”

“So, is this goodbye?”

“There aren’t true goodbyes, not for us. But, this is goodbye for a while.”

“I’ll look over you. No matter where you go, I’ll follow. I can’t save you and for that, I’m very sorry, but-”

“You don’t have to save me. Like you said, there are days when I smile. And, there are days when you smile. But, the really special ones, the ones that make the whole thing work, are the ones where we both do. Those days are rare, and today, today needs to be one of them.”

I nodded, understanding her words. I would send her off with a smile, repaying her the only way I could for everything she had done for me and would continue to do for me. 

“There’s just one thing left.” 

“Yes,” she replied.

“A, I’m sorry but I can’t just let you go like this. You’ll give me a chance at a normal life in the town you will create. I have to give you at least that much.”

“Wipe my memories then.” I said, surprising even myself. 

“I don’t…”

“You have to leave the diary and dagger with me, right? I’m sure you can devise a sigil to lock away my memories of you until I die. Seal it within the diary and hide both it and the dagger within me.”

“That’s..that’s perfect.”

“You’re welcome.”

“Are you sure?”

“It’s the only way you’ll be able to go in peace.”

“Thank you,” she said as the tears welled up in her eyes.

I raised my hand to wipe them before they fell.

“No crying, remember, you said today is a day we both smile.”

“Can’t we do both?” she asked, smiling as tears continued to pour down her cheeks.

“I’ll allow it,” I said as I felt them roll down my own as well. 

And so, she began to form another of her final sigils in her mind, before I interrupted her.

“Wait,” I exclaimed.

“Did you change your mind?”

“No, but can you just do one thing for me?”

“Anything.”

“Let me remember your eyes and your smile. I think there will be dark days ahead, I need something to keep me going when they come.”

“I will grant this wish of yours,” she said softly as she finished imprinting the sigil onto the diary. 

And, with a flash of light, it disappeared, hidden within me as the lake had been hidden within the forest. The sigil took effect slowly, but she stayed beside me until the very end, watching the sun set in the distance. The last thing I remember before she disappear was turning to face her with a smile and being greeted by one of hers.

And, I was content.