---
layout: post
title:  "Epilouge"
author: "chaosking121"
hidden: true
---

“Wake up, Mal, we’re not done yet.”

I awoke with a shock. I was on the shore of the lake. My last memory was of slowly drifting into the water.

“I’m supposed to be dead.”

“Eh, you have a habit of not dying.”

“You’re supposed to be dead too. I don’t understand.”

“I’m very clever.”

“What?”

“Have you ever seen the lake from up high?”

“You can’t see it from up high.”

“Well not from outside of course, that would defeat the purpose.”

“What is even going on?”

“The lake’s not just a lake.”

“I figured that out long ago, it’s a repository of Vortex energy.”

“Yes, but why?”

“I..don’t know.”

“Never really thought about it, huh?”

“No…”

“So what is it?”

“A window.”

“To what?”

“Well, you see.”

He reached out and flicked me on my forehead. The memories came surging back in an instant.

“Did we really?”

“Yup. Told you, I’m clever.”

“But that’s impossible. Did we really manage to split us off from the main universe at the last minute and then just make it look like I ended the universe?”

“Pretty much.”

“Wow, we’re amazing.”

“We are.”

“So, what now?”

“Well, if we wanted to, we probably join back up with the main universe if we dove deep enough into the lake.”

“But?”

“But that’s no fun.”

“What do you suggest instead?”
 
“Let’s go to the amusement park instead, it’s been ages since I rode that ferris wheel.”

“Leave it to you to create a massive ferris wheel when you’re afraid of heights.”

“I’m not clever all the time.”

“Still, I could get used to this, having the town for just the two of us.”

“Me too, sounds like it’d be fun. So, ferris wheel?”

“Yes, yes, let’s go to the ferris wheel.”
