---
layout: post
title:  "Day 9, Part 1: Diary That Remembers"
author: "chaosking121"
---

I awoke to a sharp knock on my door. I groggily told the knocker, who I assumed was Mal, that they could enter. She entered the room to find me laughing. 

“What’s so funny?”

“It just seems so normal. Being woken up with a knock on the door. You’d never think that we were in the middle of such a confusing mess.”

She laughed as well, after briefly thinking about it.

“You’re right. If it’s any consolation, today we’re gonna try to recover your memories. But first…”

The expression on her face rapidly shifted from laugher to one of total bleakness. 

“Are you okay? What’s with that look on your face?”

“Listen, A. You risked your life for me at the quarry. But, even more than that, I’ve consistently put you in danger and I’ve gotten you wrapped up in this whole mess. It’s not fair to you if you don’t even know who I am. Before we go any further, I think I owe it to you to at least have you understand the path I’ve walked. And, if after that, you decide that you still want my help, then that’s fine.”

“There’s not much you could show me that could change my impression of you.”

“Save your decisions until the end,” she said with her head hung low.

“If you insist,” I replied as I got out of bed. 

“Alright well, follow me.”

She led me to the door next to my room. The Hall of Memory, she had called it. 

“Are you ready?” she asked me, with her hand on the doorknob. 

I nodded, sure that whatever she was about to show me would have little effect on my perception of her. After all, she had protected me so many times since we met. Without her, there was no doubt that I would still be roaming around the town lost and confused.

She turned the knob and we were once again greeted by a small balcony. However, overlooking that vast, almost infinite expanse of shelves and books, there was only a small table in the room before us. Mal walked forward and pushed the balcony, opening like a gate. She then stepped over the edge and beckoned me to follow. Confused, I hesitated until I saw that steps of a staircase appeared beneath her feet as she walked, talking her down to that lone table. I followed, startled as I felt the steps form suddenly under my feet. After a long and terrifying walk down, I found myself standing at the table besides Mal. 

In her hand was a single book, which took me by surprise as she hadn’t been holding it when we entered. As I stared at it, I felt a sensation well up within me. I began to hear innumerable voices surround me, seeming to emanate from that book. Each was so faint that I could not make out even a single word, but together their whispers seemed to overwhelm me. It was a sensation that reminded me of being pulled under the surface of the water into a deep lake. Even the voice of my own mind was lost in the swirling madness that flooded my mind as I stared at that book.

“It’s my diary,” Mal spoke, freeing me from the grip of those whispers.

“I hear voices, so many voices, coming from it.”

“My memories, most likely. I’ve had this book since I was a child. I can’t remember a time without it. It’s a strange book. It never runs out of pages, and I never have to search for what I’m looking for no matter how much I write in here.”

“And I take it that you’ve written a lot.”

“I started in my childhood actually, everything I’ve experienced or learned, it’s all stored in this book. It’s my entire life story. Even the sigils that I’ve learned or created, they’re all in this book.” 

“Where did you even find a book like that?”

“I’ve had it for as long as I can remember, since I was an infant actually. Since I came to this town. And that’s the troubling thing. I don’t know how I got here or who gave me this book.”

“It was definitely useful though.”

“Yes, it’s been with me through a lot.”

“But, if you have a diary like that, then what was the purpose of this Hall of Memory?”

“The Hall was actually a creation of mine, modeled after my diary. Specifically, it let me relive the events recorded in it, but I expanded it to work for any time traveler.”

“So whatever you want to show me, it must be pretty important, right?”

“Yes, but let’s start at the beginning,” she said as she opened the book and the world around us faded to black.