---
layout: post
title:  "Day 2, Part 1: Those Three Letters"
author: "chaosking121"
---

I awoke to the chirping of birds and the blinding sunlight beaming down on me through a crack in the curtains. And, for a brief moment as I dredged myself from the grasp of sleep, I assumed that I had awoken from a strange and surprisingly vivid dream. That all came crashing down as I began to realize that I was in an unfamiliar room with no memory of how I got here. I looked down at my body to see myself wearing the same clothes as I had yesterday. Yesterday - the word resonated in my mind as the memories of the day prior came flooding down my mind. 

In that moment I felt an overwhelming sense of terror. I was lost and confused in a town that made so little sense. And while that alone would be grounds for the panic I felt creeping up on me, it was made exponentially worse because I couldn’t even remember who I was or how I got here. And then I remembered her. I don’t think I would ever be able to forget the sensation of staring into her eyes. It was so unlike anything I had ever experienced that the memory of it alone seemed to shake me to my core, which had the added benefit for staving off the panic that I was experiencing.

As I pieced together my final moments before losing consciousness, I remembered being in the courtyard and then suddenly finding myself in a hallway after grasping her hands. I remembered the feeling of exhaustion that came over me. And, worst of all, I remembered her final words. She had said that I was a time traveler. That made so little sense to me that I didn’t even begin to question it. My heart started to race as the panic started to come over me once more. I decided that sitting here in bed was going to do me no good. I needed answers and they wouldn’t be found in the confines of this room.

I stood, taking a moment to balance myself as I was still somehow feeling the effects of last night’s sudden exhaustion. I looked around the room to first try to figure out where I was. The walls were all wooden, with what seemed to be a fresh coat of light blue paint. There was a window off to the side of the bed, which let the sun into the room. The bed took up most of the space, with the rest of the room devoid of any furniture. In fact, the bed was the only object in the room whatsoever. On the opposite side of the bed to the window, there was a door. 

I approached the door cautiously, and as I gripped the doorknob I felt a knot twist in my stomach. What lay on the other side of this door? Where was I? Where was the girl I had met last night? These questions raced through my mind as I turned the doorknob and opened the door. Expectedly, the door opened into a hallway of sorts. As I stepped out into it, I became aware that this hallway had been where we arrived last night as I recognized the spot where she had leaned on the wall. I nervously walked down the hallway, with my heart racing and senses heightened. 

It led to a what seemed to be a small living room, complete with a few couches. As I looked around the room, I saw her, sitting on one of the couches with a look of total exasperation on her face. Nearly as soon as I had laid my eyes on her, she turned towards me and spoke out.

“It took you long enough. I’ve been waiting forever.”

I stepped forward, unable to even form the phrase ‘what?’ this time around. 

“You better take a seat, wouldn’t be much fun if you fainted again. By the way, don’t worry about that. Happens all the time. Well, I mean, if by all the time you mean just this once because I’ve never actually tried that before.”

As I sat down on one of the opposite hers, I finally managed to find my voice again, “Tried what?”

“Well it’s complicated right. It’s basically time travel in principle but we only really used it to jump across town. Think of it like starting a car just to listen to the radio.”

“What? How did we do that?”

“Okay, you didn’t react to the phrases car or radio so we’ve got a time frame to work it. Somewhere between the invention of cars and the death of radio. Over a century though, but it’s something.”

“I still don’t understand anything.”

“Really? Nothing at all? I had high hopes for you, try not to disappoint me.”

“Well I mean I get your analogy, but I don’t see how it’s possible.”

“It’s complicated. I’ll explain eventually. But for now I’m really just interested in why someone capable of time travel suddenly shows up with no memory here of all places. If it had been anywhere else, it might have made some sense, but this is the one place you should never have been able to reach.”

“Where is this place anyway?”

“It’s a town called Town.”

“That’s not very helpful.”

“It really isn’t, but that’s the facts. We gotta work with what we’ve got and what we’ve got right now is the two of us and this big old house.”

“Time travelers?”

“Ah, I was wondering when you would ask. Yes, strictly speaking, time travel is possible. It’s terribly difficult and quite dangerous and it’s definitely not something that just anyone can do. Given the circumstances I’m forced to believe that time travel is how you got here. Whether or not that was by your own power or will, I can’t say and given the state of your memory, I don’t think you would be able to tell me either.”

“Just when I started to think that things couldn’t get any stranger.”

“Things can get a lot stranger.”

“I see. But why don’t I remember anything? Is that normal?”

“Well, time travel on a whole isn’t exactly normal. But, to answer your question, I’ve never heard of someone losing their memories directly because of time travel.”

“I see. Wait, you said earlier something about a time frame or something?”

“Was just noting that you probably came from a time after the invention of cars, but before the death of the radio.”

“Oh, because I didn’t seem confused when you said those words?”

“Pretty much. It’s a wide area, but we’ll narrow it down eventually.”

“How?”

“Well, I’m not quite sure. But, I’ve had my fair share of crazy experiences and it’s taught me that true coincidences are rather rare. If you’re here, there’s probably a reason for it so I assume that we’ll find out eventually anyway.”

“So, what do I do in the meantime? I haven’t got anywhere to stay or means to live.”

“You can stay here. I grew up here until some stuff went down and I left to do some time-y stuff.”

“Why did you come back to this place?”

“Well, it’s a bit of a long story, but we’ve got something in common.”

“What’s that?”

“Neither of us know how we ended up here. Although I’ve been here since I was a child. I think I had parents or something a long time ago. I’m not sure. They probably weren’t my actual parents anyway.”

“So you’ve come back to try and figure it out?”

“Bingo. You can help me out with that since you’ve got nothing better to do. Actually, I think that’s exactly why you’re here in the first place.”

“I don’t mind helping, but I’m not sure how I’d be much use. You seem to have everything pretty much covered.”

“If nothing else, you’ll be around to see me be clever. You seem good enough to keep up, which is exactly what I’m looking for. Congrats, you’re hired.”

“Wow, my first job. I think. I’m really not quite sure.”

She let out a soft laugh at my bad joke, before she continued speaking.

“I’ll give you the rundown about this town later. I’m sure you’ve got a lot to think about, considering everything I just told you.”

“Yeah, I do. I just have one question though.”

“Shoot.”

“What do I call you?”

“That’s probably the last question I expected. I’ve gone by a lot of names over the years, I can barely remember most of them.”

She paused for a minute, with her furrowed brow revealing that she was deep in thought. 

“Mal. You can call me Mal.”

“Well, it’s been nice meeting you Mal, given the circumstances. I wish I had a name to offer you, but well… you know.”

“A.”

“What?”

“You’re A.”

“Why do you say that?”

“There’s a green A on your forehead. So let’s call you A.”

“That’s strange,” I said as I reached up to touch my forehead.”

“It’ll probably wash right out with some water. There’s a bathroom down the hall. It’s the first right after the room you woke up in. I guess you could call that your bedroom.”

“Alright, thanks.”

“I’ve got some errands to run for now. I’ll be back soon, you can explore the house if you’d like. Try to absorb all of this.”

“Yeah, I’m not sure anything you’ve said has sunk in yet.”

“Oh, by the way. The room at the end of the hall is mines. If you enter it I’ll probably kill you before you can even process what’s happening. For everything else, if it’s unlocked consider yourself welcome.”

“Noted.”

She dropped that last line so dryly without any change in her voice. Yet, despite the casual tone of her threat, I harbored no doubt that it was not an empty one. 

As I was processing those words, she stood up suddenly and looked around the room and winked at me. By the time her eye had shut, she had disappeared. It happened so quickly, in the space of a single blink. I assumed then that she had done the same thing that we had done last night to get to this place. 

So, to summaries. I was alone, in a strange town, with even stranger people. Except that I wasn’t really alone. I had met Mal, who claimed that she and I were time travelers, and had actually demonstrated some degree of truth to that statement. I was there in her house, on her couch, with a genuine death threat looming over me. 

I’m not quite sure how I got myself into this mess, but I had the sneaking suspicion that the crazy part wasn’t even started yet.