---
layout: post
title:  "Day 1, Part 2: The Abyss of Her Soul"
author: "chaosking121"
---

“You’re new,” she said softly. I was taken aback by her words. Despite that, I still hadn’t broken eye contact with her.

“Who are you?” I managed to stammer out. Her expression shifted to one of curiosity, with her smirk growing further.

“I should be asking you that.”

“I don’t think I’d be able to answer if you did.”

“And why is that?”

“I can’t remember a thing.”

She stood up from her seat at the edge of the fountain and started to walk towards me. As she came ever closer, I felt myself become overwhelmed by the strength of her presence. In much the same way as her movements had captivated me inside the shelter, she seemed to command all of my attention. 

Soon, she stood right in front of me. We were about the same height, and our eyes remained locked. They say that eyes are the window to the soul. I was never quite sure how I felt about that, but there, in that moment as I stared right into her green eyes, I couldn’t help but feel as though I was drowning - as if her soul itself was a vast and insurmountable abyss that threatened to devour my entire existence. 

I couldn’t stand it any longer, and I quickly averted my eyes. 

“That’s longer than many.”

“Huh?”

“So, you really don’t remember?”

“Nope, and it’s not like I haven’t been trying.”

“What do you remember?”

“I woke up on the street out in the suburbs and the cops brought me here.”

“I see. And your name?”

“Don’t know.”

“What year is it?”

“It’s 1969.”

“How do you know that?”

“I saw it on a newspaper.”

“How does that make you feel?”

“The newspaper?”

“No, the fact that it’s 1969. Does that feel right to you?”

“No, I wouldn’t say that it does. Although I can’t quite express why it feels so strange.”

“Good answer. Does anything else about this town feel strange.”

“I don’t think there’s anything that doesn’t feel strange in this town.”

“Even me?”

I turned my gaze to meet her eyes once more, surprised by her question. I decided that I would answer truthfully.

“Especially you.”

She chuckled at my bluntness. 

“Why do you say that?”

“They can’t see you, can they? The people in the shelter, they seemed to react as if you weren’t even there. When you gave that family the food, they thanked god and when you ran out the back door, no one followed you. And it was more than just that, the way you moved so intent on not bumping into anyone. I know it sounds crazy, but it’s the only thing that makes sense.”

“An interesting theory, I’m quite impressed. But, assuming I were invisible, why can you see me? What’s so special about you?”

“I was hoping you could help me with that.”

“I might just be able to. You see, there’s something very wrong with this town as I’m sure you’ve noticed.”

“You mean how it’s all so generic?”

“That’s part of it, yes.”

“What does that have to do with me?”

“Well, aside from you, I haven’t met anyone else who can see me, let alone hold a conversation or make eye contact.”

“They really do seem to hate making eye contact.”

“It makes sense when you think about it. It’s said that eyes are windows to the soul, and I have my doubts as to whether or not they’ve got any to begin with.”

“I never really believed that saying until..”

“Until?”

“Your eyes.”

“What do you see in them?”

“The abyss.”

“A fitting answer.”

Silence fell. I began to second guess my decision to be so open. Had I offended her? She was, after all, the only other person who felt real that I’d met since I awoke. But, even still, there seemed to more than a few odd things about her as well. Still, my instinct told me that I should trust her, and in a strange town without any of my memories to work with, my instinct was pretty much all I had to rely on.

“Follow me,” she said, boldly as if to answer my thoughts. She spun around and started to walk towards the fountain before I even had the chance to reply.

I hesitated for a fraction of a second before deciding that whatever she had in store for me could be no worse than the situation I was already in. I followed her through some overgrowth to a small clearing on the other side of the fountain.

“I’ve got this theory. I need your help to test it though. It might tickle a bit, or hurt. I’m not really ever quite sure which,” she said, without turning to face me. Instead she was searching the small clearing for something. Once she seemed satisfied that the area was to her liking, she gestured for me to come towards her. 

As I did, she outstretched her hands with her palms upwards.

“Hold on,” she instructed me. I didn’t hesitate this time as I placed my palms in hers. As I did, I felt a literal chill run down my spine. Despite it being night, the area around us was still moderately warm. Yet, her hands felt cold. 

I didn’t have much time to think about it though, as she said to me, “Get ready.”

Before I even had the time to ask what I had to get ready for, I felt the ground ripped from under me. That sensation was accompanied by a blinding flash of light, rapidly followed by the experience of being in near total darkness. I felt, for a moment as though I were in free fall - not just bodily, but as though the entire concept of me were removed from the world. However, it was only for a brief moment, just a fraction of a second. 

And, as suddenly as it had started, it ended. I felt my feet make contact once more with the floor - this time hardwood flooring rather than the soft grassy field. The suddenness of it all had taken me by surprise and I lost my balance pretty much right away, falling over onto the floor. The experience also seemed to rob me of my breath, as I found myself grasping for air. As tears welled up in my eyes due to my difficulty breathing, I looked up.

Wiping my eyes, I saw her leaned against a wall, looking down at me with that strange smirk on her face. Noticing that I had now caught my breath, she leaned off the wall and brought her hands together, slowly clapping.

“Looks like I was right,” she chuckled.

“What?” I managed to blurt out in between deep breaths.

“You’re probably going to faint now, but that’s alright. It tends to happen.”

As if she spoke the words into existence, I suddenly realized that I was, for the first time since I had arrived, overcome with an extreme fatigue. The feeling was not unlike what I imagine it would be like to run several marathons at once in the space of a second or two. As the sensation of exhaustion continued to set in, I felt the black creeping up in the corners of my vision as my eyes fell shut.

The last thing I remember before making a physical connection between my face and the floorboard was her voice, speaking those troubling words.

“You’re like me - you’re a time traveller.”